####
tournament: Chicago Open Literature
round: Packet_of_Death.doc
year: 2008
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: The {Lone Ranger} and {Tonto Fistfight} in {Heaven}

[AR] In one section of this work, one of the central characters is buying all the beers because he just got a “ton of money from Washington Water Power.” Samuel the grandfather of that character leaves to clean motel rooms in the chapter titled, “A Train Is An Order of Occurrence Designed to Lead to Some Result.” James responds to his cancer mostly through bad jokes causing his wife, Norma, to leave him in the section titled, “The Approximate Size of my Favorite Tumor.” Adrian and another character discuss how drinking has ruined the aspirations of many members of their community including the main character's desire to play basketball in, “The Only Traffic Signal on the Reservation Don't Flash Red Anymore.” In addition to “A Drug Called Tradition,” this work is comprised of 21 interconnected vignettes, and tells of a Spokane Indian Reservation through the eyes of Thomas Builds-the-fire and Victor Joseph. For 10 points, name this work by Sherman Alexie, whose title refers to two characters from a radio show sparring in paradise.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 38
answer: {Arthur Yvor Winters}

[SJ] In one poem he speaks of "Persimmon, walnut, loquat, fig, and grape" before claiming "The mind's immortal, but the man is dead." Besides "Time and the Garden" he speaks of "a mist fine as spray/ Ready to shatter into spining light" in "On a View of Pasadena from the Hills."  He claims "Treading change with savage heel/ We must live or die by steel" in the title poem of a collection also containing "To my Infant Daughter," Before Disaster. His revial of the reputations of Frederick Goddard Tuckerman and Charles Churchill as well as his advocacy of a Post-Symbolist style of poetry were based on his dictum that a poem is a rational statement and judgment about human experience.   For 10 points, name this former Stanford professor and mentor to Edgar Bowers and J.V Cunningham, the author of Forms of Discovery and In Defense of Reason.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: “{Looking} for {Zora}”

[AR] Throughout this work are interspersed quotes and extended passages from such figures as Robert Hemenway and assorted college students. After finding Charlotte Hunt, in Winter Park, she travels to her destination and describes herself as the niece of the title figure, “a profoundly useful lie,” in order to solicit information. There she meets, Ms. Moseley and Rosalee, and afterwards she goes to the Merrit Monument Company and picks out the Ebony Mist headstone, and has the words “Genius of the South” engraved on it to mark the grave of the title figure. First published in Ms. Magazine in 1975 and collected In Search of Our Mother's Gardens, it begins by describing the author's landing in Orlando recognizing the description from the title figure's Mules and Men. For 10 points, name this essay by Alice Walker that recounts her search for the author of Their Eyes Were Watching God.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: The {Siege} of {Krishnapur}

[AR] In one scene, Harry manages to blow Voltaire's bust out of the bore of the six-pounder, though the main character expresses surprise that it would become jammed at all. The mere sound of the word “cholera” in this book, seemed to anger Dunstaple, as he remembered a dramatic argument he had with McNab about the causes of the disease. Later after a freak snowstorm, those inside the Residency create canister shot by stuffing ladies stockings with filed candlesticks. Mr. Hopkins, known as the Collector, while opening a dispatch box does not find the documents he expected but four biscuit-sized objects made of coarse flour called chapatis, whose mysterious distribution represented the first sign of trouble here. The title location is not a town at all, “but one of those ancient cemeteries that are called ‘Cities of the Silent',” that one comes across in northern India. The second volume in the author's Empire Trilogy, for 10 points, name this Booker Prize winning novel by J. G. Farrell about the blockade of a city during the Sepoy Rebellion.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 37
answer: {Vathek}

[AR] While chilling on a mattress of feathers, slamming back flagons of Schiraz, the main character of this work sees Bababalouck followed by two dwarves. His mother had warned him in a message not to believe those “cubit-high messengers” or "trust their pious frauds," and instead of eating their melons he should impale their bearers. Earlier, he added five extensions to his father's palace, on the hill of Pied Horses, some of which he named “The Temple of Melody,” “The Eternal or Unsatiating Banquet,” and “The Retreat of Joy, or the Dangerous.” In order to be brought to “a palace of subterranean fire,” the hideous Indian merchant-wizard, Giaour, demands that the title character, a ruler with an evil eye and a penchant for harems, sacrifice fifty of the most beautiful children in the land.  These and other licentious deeds eventually gets him an audience with Eblis in Hell. Loosely based on Haroun al Rashid's grandson, the ninth Abbasid Caliph, for 10 points, name this Gothic novel by William Beckford.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: {Hilaire Belloc}

[AR] He suggests one “as a habit never drinks too much red wine,” and in another essay this author mocks two frightfully rich English men in “On Conversations in Trains.” Author of such novels as Pongo and the Bull, and The Man Who Made Gold, he grouped Islam with the Protestant Reformation as examples of great heresies of the “Church Universal,” and was routinely accused of anti-Semitism because of such works as The Jews. In addition to the children's verse poems such as The Bad Child's Book of Beasts and More Beasts for Worse Children, he wrote the travelogues The Path to Rome, The Cruise of the Nona and Hills and the Sea. Considered a champion of British Catholicism along with his friend G.K. Chesterton and called “Old Thunder,” by his aunt, for 10 points, name this prolific essayist, poet, economist and historian, a French-born naturalized British citizen, author of over 150 works including Europe and the Faith and The Servile State.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: {Robert Bridges}

[SJ] In one poem this man asked "Why has thou nothing in thy face, thou idol of the human race?" and in another he described how "the packed pollution and remorse of Time... reenact the horrors of unhousehold crime." This author of "Low Barometer" and "Eros" claimed "Thou art alone, fond lover" in a poem remarking "The evening darkens over" and rebuked "Joy's wisdom is attired splended for others' eyes if not for thee" in "Melancholia." He divided verse into accentual-syllabic, accentual, syllabic, and quantitative varieties in a study of Milton's prosody and he was also responsible for posthumously publishing the poems of his friend Gerard Manley Hopkins. he gained fame in his lifetime for a poem in four books beginning "Man's Reason is in such insolvency to sense." For 10 points, name this author of The Testament of Beauty.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: “The {Celestial Omnibus}”

[DJ] One character in this work notes that “in quite illiterate minds, you will find glimpses of Artistic Truth;” at the end of the story, his body is found near the Bermondsey gas works. Upon returning to Agathox Lodge, one character is made to recite “To Homer” by Percy Bysshe Shelley, who is referenced in the beginning of this work when the protagonist is told that a young man who was expelled from the University had made a signpost pointing up a blank alley. While Sir Thomas Browne is the first one to take the protagonist out of Surbiton, it is implied that Dante is the driver for the protagonist and Mr. Septimus Bons, whose lack of belief in this Heaven causes him to fall to his death. Since he held both return tickets, however, the protagonist is left in Heaven by the title mode of transportation at the end of, FTP, which short story by E. M. Forster?

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 35
answer: {“Rain”}

[DJ] In Woody Allen's “Reminiscences: Places and People,” this work's author claims that its main female character was once a parrot. One character reveals a dream about the mountains of Nebraska, which reminds another character of how they struck him as resembling a woman's breasts. The story of Fred Ohlson, who was unfaithful to his wife, is recalled by another character, who instituted fines and prevented others from selling their copra. His hopes of effecting similar changes in Apia have stalled thanks to an epidemic of the measles; however, he threatens to send another character to San Francisco, despite Dr. MacPhail pleas to the governor. Yet Reverend Davidson eventually succumbs to the wiles of the prostitute Sadie Thompson while the missionaries have been stranded at Pago-Pago thanks to the title weather condition in, FTP, which short story by W. Somerset Maugham?

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: “The {Wall}” [or “Le {Mur}”]

[DJ] Paul P. Somers has criticized this work's ending as having “sledge-hammer obviousness,” while Alexander Argyros argued for its necessity. The sight of the Big Dipper allows the narrator to recall beaches on the Atlantic and eating olives and anchovies in bars, and he later recalls the time he spent with Concha as the Belgian doctor offers to bring souvenirs to loved ones shortly. Near the end of this work, the baker Garcia reveals the results of the decision made by the narrator after he had been locked in the laundry, having earlier watched Tom Steinbock and Juan Mirbal being led away. He had decided that he would not divulge information about another anarchist, and, thus, he gives his captors false information. However, Pablo Ibbieta laughs hysterically when he learns that Ramon Gris was actually hiding in the cemetery, avoiding execution by a firing squad against the title object at the end of, FTP, which short story by Jean-Paul Sartre?

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: {Beneath} the {Wheel}

[AR] The main character of this novel at one point finds himself in a prior's quarters where supposedly Doctor Faustus, who came from the nearby town of Knittlingen, had enjoyed some Elffinger wine. In that scene, the main character explains that he has always completed his assignments, to which the headmaster responds, differendum est inter et inter, and asks that he spend less time with his friend Heilner. After becoming an apprentice to blacksmith, he learns to respect butchers and bakers and intends to go to Bielach even though he had never learned to be a man. Earlier, he was sent to a Cistercian monastery at Maulbronn where he was the headmaster's most zealous student of Hebrew, but he is eventually sent back home after his friend is expelled from seminary and his work and mental health suffers. Hans Giebenrath drowns in, for 10 points, this work about the crushing pressure faced by a student prodigy, an early novel by Herman Hesse.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 37
answer: {Curzio Malaparte} [accept {Kur Eric Sukert} before mentioned]

[AR] This author describes in one work a touching scene where a father places presents in the backyard to convince his children that the English are not bombing the city to pieces. Working as a correspondent for Corriere della Serra, his reports from the USSR are collected in The Volga Rises in Europe. He directed the 1953 movie Forbidden Christ and though a fascist sympathizer, he incurred Mussolini's displeasure and was sent to “internal exile” on Lipari for writing the how-to guide Technique of the Coup-d'état. One novel describes the moral degradation that occurs after the liberation of Naples, wherein the only thing people are willing to fight for is the title entity, a metaphor for people's personal flag. In another novel, this author describes with detachment trains disgorging themselves of dead bodies, and sleeping in a house with a rotting horse carcass next to it. Born Kur Eric Sukert and taking a pen-name meaning “bad place,” for 10 points, name this Italian novelist of The Skin and Kaputt.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: The {Cloven Viscount}

[SJ] One character in this work tries to catch will-o-the-wisps in bottles and is fond of cancarone; to that character, chickens tied to a terrace railing represent diarrhea and a row of snails signifies heart disease. Another character in this work is courted with daisies stripped from stalks and bits of jellyfish and bats. The title character exiles his nurse Sebastiana to live with a group of merry people who, like Galateo, use garlands of flowers to hide the deformities of leprosy and live in Pratofungo. This work is narrated by the title character's nephew and Dr. Trelawney is responsible for healing the man who will marry Pamela. The narrator fights himself to a bloody draw before the Good 'Un and Bad 'Un are reconciled, and this work begins when Medardo of Terralba is shot by a Turkish cannon. For 10 points, name this novel about a disabled nobleman by Italo Calvino.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 33
answer: {Chaireas} and {Callirhoe}

[AR] In one scene, a character is rescued by Mithridates after Polycharmus accidently mentions the title character's name. The title character is then sent to Queen Statira for safekeeping while the Great King tries to figure out who the real husband is. The beauty of the daughter of Hemocrates, is described as being divine, not just Nereid or mountain nymph hot, but Aphrodite hot. After she is taken by the graverobber Theron to Ionia, she is sold to the richest man in Miletus, who enlists the help of Phocas and Plangon to win her over. The action of this novel begins when that rescued character kicks her so hard that the title character is sent into a death-like coma. The author introduces himself as a clerk of the lawyer, Athenagoras, and informs us that he will relate a love story that took place in Syracuse involving the title character who shares her name with a naiad, the mother of Geryon. For 10 points, name this early historical novel by the first century author Chariton.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: Women {Celebrating} the {Thesmophoria} [or {Thesmophoriazusae}]

[EM] One character in this work attempts to escape a burning by threatening the child of a bystander, but the child turns out to only be a wineskin.  One character in this work complains that she was able to sell religious idols until the population stopped believing in gods.  The protagonist's father-in-law is tied to a post and guarded by an illiterate Scythian archer, who is eventually bought off with the promise of sex with a flute-girl. Agathon refuses to help the main character by dressing as a woman to infiltrate the proceedings, so Mnesilochus agrees to do so. Centering around a gathering at the temple of Demeter, FTP, name this play in which the women of Athens put Euripides on trial for repeatedly insulting their sex, a farcical comedy by Aristophanes.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: The {Strong Breed}

[DL] One character claims this work's protagonist is one of “these fools who think they were born to carry suffering like a hat,” but still “break first.”  Another character requests a buba to put onto her effigy from the protagonist, who decides not to take the lorry away from the village. While stripped and covered in flour, that protagonist later sees a flashback of his tutor's encounter with his doomed betrothed Omae while running from Oroge and Jaguna, for whom he'd agreed to replace the mute Ifada as the “carrier” of curses at the New Year's Festival. For 10 points, name this play where teacher Eman, despite thinking he belongs to the title stock, cannot avoid his ritual murder, by Wole Soyinka.

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: “The {Critic} as {Artist}”

[AR] One character asks if he could play a Dvorak fantasy, to which another responds that “music is far too indefinite,” but is glad that it sounds nothing like German. Set in the library of a house in Picadilly overlooking Green Park, one character claims that the difference between literature and journalism is that journalism is unreadable and literature isn't read and Gilbert then suggests that the Greeks were a nation of the title profession as evidenced by the badly written, yet perfectly tempered Poetics by Aristotle. This work argues that the product of the first title profession should count and be judged along similar lines as the second title profession's work. Subtitled “With Some Important Remarks upon the Importance of Doing Nothing,” for 10 points, name this work of meta-criticism in the form of a dialogue between Gilbert and Earnest, by Oscar Wilde.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 37
answer: {Sexual Personae}

[AR] In a review of this work John Updike wrote that, “It feels less like a survey than a curiously ornate harangue.” This work suggests that such Hawthorne stories as “The May-Pole of Merry Mount” and “Rappaccini's Daughter” deal with Christianity's uneasiness with a particular aspect of nature, and that Poe was deeply afraid of nature and the feminine. It also claims that Sade, who is the most unread major writer in western literature, represents a comprehensive and satiric critique of Rousseau in his understanding of nature.  One chapter in this work, dedicated to Coleridge is titled “The Daemon as Lesbian Vampire,” and this work claims that the bulk of “Western Culture”  are literary and artistic manifestations of men's fear of vaginas and an obsessive-compulsive desire to valorize the penis. Comparing the Belle of Amherst to a homosexual cultist draped in bondage gear, for 10 points, name this work of literary criticism subtitled, “Art and Decadence from Nefertiti to Emily Dickinson” written by Camille Paglia.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: {ABC} of Reading

[AR] Ernest Fenollosa's Essay on the Chinese Written Character is noted as the first essay that employs the method of analysis the author wishes to employ in this work. It demands that those who are unwilling to master the small glossary to understand Chaucer should be “shut out from the reading of good books forever.” This work stipulates that no man is prepared for modern thinking without understanding the anecdote of Agassiz and the fish, and that the proper method of studying “poetry and good letters” is the method of contemporary biologists. According to the author, Stendhal's epiphany in “Poetry with its Obligatory Comparisons,” caused “the great turning,” whereby poetry was vastly inferior to prose until it caught up with Flaubert and Stendhal, on the basis that “DICHTEN=CONDENSARE.” It is impersonal enough, according to the author to serve as a textbook and includes such slogans as “Artists are the Antennae of the race,” and that “Great Literature is news that stays NEWS,” for 10 points, name this work of criticism whose title refers to the fundamentals of the title action written by Ezra Pound.

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: Black {Lamb} and {Grey Falcon}

[AR] In this work, we meet Gregorievich, who “looks like Pluto in the Mickey Mouse films.” After saying good-bye to Constantine at the end of the Easter trip, it mentions a number of other texts that were rejected as reference resources including F.W. Fodor's South of Hitler. It was initially published in five installments for the The Atlantic Monthly, and after discussing the possible poisoning of Stefan Dushan, the author mentions going "to a lavatory of the Turkish kind." The author describes touching the black and desiccated hand of headless man lying in state at Vrdink monastery, Prince Lazar. Violence was all the author knew of the region and it devotes significant pages to the Battle of Kosovo and the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand.  The first title symbol is seen initially being held in the arms of a peasant in Belgrade, while the second refers to an enigmatic figure in a Slav folksong. Subtitled “A Journey through Yugoslavia,” for 10 points, name this half-million word travelogue and ethnography written by Dame Rebecca West.