####
tournament: Chicago Open Literature
round: Packet_3.doc
year: 2008
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 34
answer: Stephen Vincent {Benet}

One of this author's works opens at “one of Johnny Chipman's parties at the Harlequin club,” where Ricky French and the other guests debate the trouble with art, which they conclude is women. In addition to Young People's Pride, this author wrote a play where the voice of Schiller responds, “It does to me” when asked what difference it makes to “Burn a few books, burn a hundred, or burn a million.” This author's poems include Western Star and Litany for Dictatorships, and he adapted a passage from Whitman's Specimen Days for a poem about Union Troops after a defeat. A priest travels to the “Place of the Gods” his post-apocalyptic short story “By the Waters of Babylon,” and in another of his short stories, the title character defends Jabez Stone from Mr. Scratch. For 10 points, name this author of John Brown's Body and “The Devil and Daniel Webster.”

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: {George Etherege}

In one of this author's plays, Palmer and Wheadle swindle Sir Nicholas Cully out of one thousand pounds, and the valet of Sir Frederick Frollick, Dufoy, is locked in a tub after eating large amounts of opium. In another, Ariana and Gatty are pursued by Freeman and Courtall, who exposes the schemes of the amorous Lady Cockwood. Besides The Comical Revenge and She Would if She Could, this author used John Wilmot as a model for a character who leaves Mrs. Loveit and Bellinda for Harriet. That play contrasts Dorimant with the ridiculous affectations of Sir Fopling Flutter. FTP, name this Restoration dramatist of The Man of Mode.

----
num: 3
category: Mythology
difficulty: Open
fixed: -1
seen: 114
answer: the {Laestrygonians}

Their land includes the fountain Artacia. They work as much by night as day, allowing their members to make a dual living as shepherd and cattle-herder in their city of Telepylus, which was founded by Lamos and sits on top of steep cliffs overlooking a channel. At first seeing only smoke in their land, the protagonist sends out a search party, which is directed to their king, Antiphates, by his daughter. However, when that party instead encounters this race's violent queen, they retreat, and though the cove-hidden flagship remains safe from them, the rest of the fleet is destroyed by their hurled rocks. Visited between Aeolus and Circe, for 10 points, name this race of man-eating giants from the Odyssey.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: The {Birthday Party}

One character in this play compares an unshowered person to “a corpse waiting to be washed,” and later asks “Is the number 846 possible or necessary?” After its premiere, Harold Hobson was the only critic to give this play a positive review, and its author stated that this play contained the most important line he ever wrote, “don't let them tell you what to do!” This play ends with one character proclaiming “I was the belle of the ball,” and includes a scene where the protagonist screams after two characters shout questions like “Why do you pick your nose?” and “Why did the chicken cross the road?” at him. During the title event, the protagonist steps on a drum and attempts to rape Lulu after his glasses are broken by McCann. Set at a seaside boarding house run by Petey and Meg Boles, FTP, name this play about the abduction of Stanley Webber, by Harold Pinter.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: The Tragedy of the {Duchess} of {Malfi}

One character in this play observes “women like that part which, like the lamprey, / hath never a bone in 't.” In its fourth act, eight madmen dance in front of the protagonist after she is shown wax likenesses of the corpses of her husband and children. The protagonist refuses to marry Count Malateste, and is later banished by dumb-show at the Shrine of Our Lady of Loretto. In its final act, Julia dies after kissing a poisoned book, and Bosola kills a man driven to lycanthropy by the death of the title character, who is strangled by executioners for having children with Antonio. FTP, name this play about a noblewoman destroyed by her brothers Ferdinand and the Cardinal, a revenge tragedy by John Webster.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: {Marquis Donatien Alphonse Francois} de {Sade}

The second excursus of Dialectic of Enlightenment analyzes one of this author's characters as the embodiment of the Enlightenment project. In the work where that character appears, she has an extended dialogue with Pope Pius VI, whom she calls by his secular name, “Braschi.” Pierre Klossowski analyzed this author's role as a “philosopher-villain” in a book titled “My Neighbor [this man].” An essay by Simone de Beauvoir states that he was genuinely afraid of people; that essay's title asks if we must burn this author. This author of the novella Flourville and Courval considered the problem of evil in Dialogue between a Priest and a Dying Man. “Therese” narrates the story of Madam de Lorsange's sister, who is eventually struck by a “blazing thunderbolt,” in a novel by this author subtitled “The Misfortunes of Virtue.” For 10 points, name this French author of Philosophy in the Bedroom, The 120 Days of Sodom, and Justine.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 33
answer: {Tirso} de {Molina} [or {Fray Gabriel Tellez}]

This author drew from the Mercedarian account for his short story about the life of San Pedro Armengol, “El Bandolero.” This author of the historical drama Antona Garcia also wrote a short story about the virtues of the dowager Queen Dona Maria, “Prudence in the Woman.” He wrote a play about a woman whose only brother, Antonio is murdered by her lover Felipe, Marta la Piadosa, and collected critical essays such as “Labyrinth” and “Pleasure and Profit” in Cigarrales de Toledo. Another of his plays, named for a rake who pulls the beard of a statue of the murdered Don Gonzalo and invites it to dinner, was adapted into a Mozart opera. For 10 points, name this disciple of Lope de Vega, the Spanish playwright whose The Libertine of Seville and the Stone Guest formed the basis for Don Giovanni.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 32
answer: The {Blithedale Romance}

After the incident in the Village Hall, the narrator of this work claims to see an Indian chief, the goddess Diana, and a Bavarian broom-girl in the forest outside Paul Dudley's ancient stone wall. In this novel, the story of Fauntleroy is told by a character who seeks to obtain money from the narrator's daughter to build a school for criminals. In its fourteenth chapter, the main characters discuss the place of women after journeying to Eliot's pulpit, and in its first chapter, the narrator talks with Old Moodie before setting out for the title location. After a magician's show in which Westervelt produces a Veiled Lady, Hollingsworth reveals his love for Priscilla, leading to the death of her half-sister Zenobia. Narrated by Miles Coverdale, FTP, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel based on Brook Farm.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: The {Mysteries} of {Udolpho}

Unable to sleep the night before traveling to Turin, the main character of this work composes a poem about the charming younger brother of Count Duvarney titled “The Piedmontese.” Its epigraph begins, “Fate sits on these dark battlements, and frowns,” and near the end of this novel, Ludovico reveals that mysterious noises were really caused by hidden pirates. Opening in 1584 on the “pleasant banks of Garonne” in Gascony, the protagonist is pursued by Morano, and is frightened by a nameless horror behind a black veil. Eventually, the main character is reunited with Valancourt after being imprisoned in Count Montoni's title fortress. After reading this novel, Catherine Morland suspects General Tilney of murdering his wife in Northanger Abbey. For 10 points, name this Gothic novel about Emily St. Aubert, written by Ann Radcliffe.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: {Pilgrim} at {Tinker Creek}

In the second chapter of this work, the narrator discusses people who regained sight with cataract operations, while in its last chapter, the narrator follows a bee and contemplates the waters of separation. Also featuring a goldfish named Ellery Channing, in another chapter, the narrator claims “This is it, I think, this is it, right now, the present” while petting a beagle puppy and sipping coffee at a gas station. It opens with the narrator's notion that she has been “painted with roses” while sleeping naked in front of a window the cat uses. Featuring chapters like “Heaven and Earth in Jest,” it takes place at the title location in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia. For 10 points, name this theological treatise of nature writing, written by Annie Dillard.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: “To His {Excellency}, {George Washington}”

In a letter to the author of this poem, its addressee wrote that he would have publicly published it had he not been apprehensive about incurring the “imputation of Vanity.” One stanza describes a goddess whose “golden hair” is bound by “olive and laurel,” while another implores the muses to listen while the author's pen “relates” how armies pour “through a thousand gates.” Its fourth stanza deplores “whoever dares disgrace / the land of freedom's heaven-defended race” after stating that “Gallic powers Columbia's fury found.” Originally published two years after its author's collection Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral, this poem ends by encouraging the title figure to “proceed, great chief, with virtue at thy side,” and wishing him “a crown, a mansion, a throne that shine.” FTP, name this poem by Phillis Wheatley addressed to America's first president.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: the {Redcrosse Knight} [accept {Saint George} until mentioned]

After drinking from an enchanted spring, this character is imprisoned by the giant Orgoglio. He nearly commits suicide after Trevisan brings him to the dwelling of Despair, and defeats his main antagonist upon being revived with ointment from the Tree of Life. At the House of Pride, this character is challenged to a fight by Sans joy, and after Archimago tricks him into doubting the chastity of his companion, this character abandons her for Fidessa, who is really Duessa in disguise. He learns that he will be canonized as Saint George at the House of Holiness before slaying a dragon terrorizing the homeland of Una. FTP, identify this character named for the emblem on his armor and his shield, the hero of the first book of The Faerie Queene.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: The {Ring} and the {Book}

One speaker in this work, Johannes-Baptista Bottinius, apologies for the length of his oration, and wishes that his audience included the Pope. Hyacinthus de Archangelis mocks him in the next section, and the narrator of final section's notes that one of the title objects is responsible for “Linking our England to his Italy.” Another speaker, Guiseppe Caponsacchi, is upset that he has to “tell over twice what I, the first time, told six months ago,” since he was not believed initially. In the section “Tertium Quid,” the author claims, “Law's a machine from which to please the mob.” Focusing on events which transpired on Februrary 22, 1698, the source of this work comes from a collection of legal documents the author found in the Piazza San Lorenzo about a case involving Count Guido Franceschini. For 10 points, name this 21,000-line narrative poem about a real-life murder trial told from different perspectives, by Robert Browning.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: “{Lady Macbeth} of {Mtsensk}” [or “{Lady Macbeth} of the {Mtsensk District}”]

The protagonist of this work spends hours staring out a window in boredom partially because the only book in her house is an edition of Lives of the Fathers. Later, the protagonist is pinned to the ground by a clerk after placing herself on a machine for weighing animals. The title character has visions of a cat with fiery eyes and the head of her father-in-law, and out of jealousy, the title character kills Sonetka by dragging her into the Volga River. In order to keep seeing Sergei, the title character poisons the mushrooms of Boris Timofeyevich, strangles Fedya with a pillow, and murders her husband Zinovy. FTP, name this short story about Katerina Izmaylov, whose crimes of passion earn her the title nickname, a work by Nikolai Leskov adapted into an opera by Shostakovich.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 1
seen: 37
answer: Adolf {Hitler}

In Running Dog, Moll Robbins searches for a possible pornographic film starring this man. A devil named DT narrates a 2007 novel by Norman Mailer about the childhood of this man, The Castle in the Forest. In The Tunnel, William Kohler attempts to write a massive study of “guilt and innocence” in this man's country. To “mirror” his play Madame de Sade, Yukio Mishima wrote a play named “my friend” this man, who is portrayed as the Chicago gangster Arturo Ui in a play by Bertolt Brecht. Jack Gladney studies this man in White Noise, and a book by this man describes a “drive to the east” after declaring the need for “living space,” or lebensraum. FTP, name this German author of Mein Kampf.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: the {Sandman}

In John le Carre's novel Smiley's People, the main character must remember to “Tell Max it concerns [this figure]." This figure titles a Miles Gibson novel about William Burton, a lonely boy who ends up becoming a good-natured serial killer. This figure tells Hjalmar seven stories in seven nights in Hans Christian Anderson's fairy tale Ole-Lukoje. In a short story, Nathaniel associates this figure with the lawyer Coppelius before falling in love with  Spalanzani's automaton Olympia. Freud analyzes a short story about this figure in his essay “The Uncanny.” For 10 points, identify this character who titles a short story by E.T.A. Hoffman as well as a series by Neil Gaiman about Dream of The Endless.

----
num: 17
category: Social Science
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 38
answer: “The {Death} of the {Author}”

This work cites J.-P. Venant's research to assert that Greek tragedies are composed of words with double meanings “that each character understands unilaterally.” It attacks the “castrating objectivity of the realist novelist,” and argues that writers produce texts from inner dictionaries. This work cites Mallarme, Valery, Proust, and the Surrealists as writers who tried to overcome the “cult” of the central figure, described as a product of French rationalism, the Reformation, and the culmination of capitalist ideology. First published in Image, Music, Text, this essay states that “writing is the destruction of every voice, of every point of origin,” and claims that the title figure should be replaced with “the scriptor.” Beginning by analyzing a passage from Balzac's “Sarrasine,” FTP, name this essay which argues that the “birth of the reader” needs to be at the cost of the title event, written by Roland Barthes.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 32
answer: {Gao} Xingjian

This author of critical works like Return to Painting and The Case for Literature wrote a short story about a boy who develops the title malady by jumping into a pool without exercising enough beforehand. In addition to “Cramp,” this author applied Grotowski's concept of a “poor theatre” in his play whose title refers to the Buddhist doctrine of “paramita,” The Other Shore. This author of the collection Buying a Fishing Rod for my Grandfather wrote about his relationships with Sylvie and Margerethe in One Man's Bible. Shortly after discovering that he did not have lung cancer, he wrote a novel about a dying man's quest to reach Lingshan. For 10 points, name this Chinese author of Soul Mountain.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: “The {Elephant Vanishes}”

The protagonist of this short story works for the PR section of a major manufacturer of electrical appliances, and states that “the most important point is unity” when describing a kit-chin to the editor of a magazine for young housewives. The protagonist casually uses the word “pragmatic” to describe the world, feeling that it “explains a lot” and “makes work easier,” and later returns a brick-red umbrella after regretting telling a story which he felt might “excite Sherlock Holmes.” While standing on a cliff behind a house, the protagonist feels that the difference in size between the keeper and the title animal, originally sent from East Africa, had shrunk, making it possible for it to have escaped through the bars of his cage. The title animal's disappearance is chronicled in, FTP, which title story of a collection by Haruki Murakami?

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: {Tawfiq al}-{Hakim}

This author wrote about a conversation between waiters named Love, Satan, and Death in the short story "In the Tavern of Life." In one of this author's works, Adham and Sha'ban found an establishment which borrows and lends people's worries. In addition to Anxiety Bank, this author wrote two bildungsromans about his alter ego Muhsin, Return of the Spirit and The Bird of the East, and wrote his country's first absurdist play, The Tree Climber. An allegory in the Qu'ran inspired his first play, which is based on the myth of the seven sleepers of Ephesus. In another of his plays, a mameluk ruler must choose between obeying the law or ruling by force upon learning that he has not been legally manumitted. FTP, name this Egyptian playwright of The People of the Cave and The Sultan's Dilemma.