####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PLAYOFFS ROUND 1.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: Vikram {Seth}

This author collaborated with Alex Roth on the opera Arion and the Dolphins and described his hitchhiking journey from Tibet to his hometown in From Heaven Lake. In one of his works, he parallels his Uncle, a dentist who studied in Germany named Shanti, with his aunt, a Jew named Henny whose parents were sent to a death camp. In another work, Julia is the beloved of the musician in the Maggiore Quartet, Michael Holmes. In addition to [?] Two Lives and An Equal Music, this author wrote about an iguana named Arnold Schwarzenegger and a man who used to work for Datatronics written in Pushkin sonnets, but he is best known for writing about Abdus Salam in a massive work featuring the Khans and the Mehras. For ten points, name this author of Golden Gate and A Suitable Boy.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 443
answer: Graham {Greene}

This author wrote about Mathis hunting down Raven in his A Gun for Sale. He described his trip into Africa as "a smash and grab air raid" when traveling through Liberia, and he described Nazi agents pursuing the film thief [?] Arthur Rowe. Beyond Journey without Maps and The Ministry of Fear, this man wrote of Dr. Kreuzer in a novel about the alcoholic James Califer, and about a vacuum cleaner salesman falsifying information about contacts in the Caribbean, James Wormold. In addition to The Potting Shed, and Our Man in Havana¸ he also described Vigot investigating a murder underneath a Vietnamese bridge, and a lieutenant hunting down a priest in Mexico. For ten points, name this author The Quiet American and The Power and the Glory.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 441
answer: {Canada}

One author from this country wrote about the Swiss hagiographer Ramsay and the magician Magnus Eisengrem in his story about David Staunton, The Manticore, which is the second novel of a trilogy also containing Fifth Business and World of Wonders. Another author from here wrote God Hates [?] Japan and the horrible novel Hey Nostradamus!, in addition to inserting Dagmar Bellinghausen and Andy Palmer in his Generation X. Another author from here described the adventures a tiger named Richard Parker who is stranded with the title irrational figure on a boat for 2/3 of a year. Another author from here wrote Edible Women and described Iris Chase in the novel The Blind Assassin. For ten points, name this home country of Douglass Coupland, Yann Martel and Maragaret Atwood.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 450
answer: Tennessee {Williams}

This author that wrote a play about Val and Lady originally entitled Battle of Angels imagined Mark rolling around in paint nude, thinking he has invented color in the play In the Bar of a Tokyo Hotel. In another play, John Buchanan shows an anatomy chart to Alma Winemiller, while another play sees the reputation of [?] Sebastian protected by Mrs. Venable, even though Catherine Holly resists. Beyond Summer and Smoke and Suddenly Last Summer, he created a man who thinks he has a spastic colon as opposed to cancer. That man has a child that might be having an affair with Skipper, and another character he created is called “Blue Roses,” and is courted by Jim O'Connor in addition to being the sister of Tom Wingfield.. For ten points, name this author of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and The Glass Menagerie.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 442
answer: {All's Well} That Ends {Well}

John Berryman argued that this play was Shakespeare's worst, probably because one character compares his universal advice with a barber's chair that fits buttocks of all sizes. [?] Mariana appears in this work that sees a man write a letter saying “Men are to mell with, boys are to kiss.” That character was being interrogated while blindfolded by his own Counts when he was ordered to retrieve a drum. The protagonist lies about dying in a monastery in order to further a scheme involving a Widow obtaining a ring. This play also sees the king of France suffer from a fistula, but is cured by the heroine leading her to marry the Count of Rossilon. For ten points, name this Shakespeare play that ends with Bertram deciding to faithfully love Helena.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: {Chronicle} of a Death {Foretold} or ({Crónica} de una {muerte anunciada})

One character in this novel decides to use a séance to honor the memory of Yolanda Xius, while another character writes letters to a groom that abandoned her for 17 years. One character holds his [?] intestines in his hands, and then runs back to his house where he perishes in his kitchen, and that character is an Arabic man yelled at by Flora. This work sees one of Purisima del Carmen's children marrying Prudencia after being held in jail for three years, and Clotilde Arnenta owns a milk stand and has Leonardo Pornoy's superior confiscate the knives sharpened in a butcher shop. For ten points, name this novel that centers on the Vicario's brothers attempt to strike back about Angela's loss of virginity leading to the death of Santiago Nasar, written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: {Dead Souls} or {Mertvye dushi}

The final sentence of this work discusses the future and how it looms in the dark. One character relates a tale about how the protagonist replaced 2 million false rubles with genuine ones thereby resisting arrest in addition showing off his extensive [?] dagger collection before being arrested for punching Maximov. The protagonist fails to help Hlobuev alter a will correctly, so he is arrested by Lyenitzyn before Murazov the lawyer frees him. Earlier, he gained the favor of Betrishtechev, paving the way for Tentetnikov to be closer to Ulinka. The protagonist had visited the Temple of Solitary Meditation of Manilovka's estate, the first place he obtained the names of those who perished before the census.  For ten points, the title entities are actually the serf's names bought by Pavel Tchitchikov in what Nikolai Gogol work?

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 439
answer: Nick {Adams}

This man's father decides to take logs from the ship Magic. While in Tyrol with his friend John, this man hears about a man that used his frozen dead wife's mouth as a gaping hook for a lantern, before buried by a parishioner. This man [?] bicycles from Fornaci to an encampment, seeing tons of dead bodies along the way, and he alienates Marjorie by not answering her question about love, which leaves Bill confused. This man catches two fishes in a stream near a log town that was burnt down, and he also relays information about Max and George, two hitmen trying to kill Ole Anderson. For ten points, name this character who appears in “An Alpine Idyll,” “In Another Country,” “Big Two-Hearted River,” and “The Killers,” created by Hemmingway.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: None
seen: 445
answer: {France}

One literary movement from this country was started by the author of Song of the Rhone and Mireio, which had a similar goal than that of this country's Consistory of the Gay Saber. Another movement from this country is marked by a novel featuring Anton Vowl, which is a [?] lipogram translated by Gilbert Adair, and notably lacks the letter “e” completely. In addition to the “Workshop of Potential Literature,” or Oulipo, this country was home to a group including Bernard Oth which notably has 14 members, even though that movement is named for only half of that. Home to a movement named after Mount Parnassus, its capital was the meeting place for Aime Cesaire and Leopold Senghor to form Negritude. For ten points, name this country whose symbolist movement features poets like the Uruguay-born Jules Laforgue and Arthur Rimbaud.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 456
answer: {McTeague}

One character in this novel talks about a flying squirrel and the gold dishes she used to own to an owner of a junk shop, who is found in Black Point Bay. One character is able to make a small fortune by binding, and in addition to the characters of Zerkow and [?] Mari, that character is Old Grannis who is involved with Miss Baker. The protagonist's wife rolls around in lots of gold coins on a bed, and had won five thousand dollars from a lottery. Mrs. Sieppe arranges for the marriage of the title character that has a canary in a cage and is handcuffed in Death Valley to his former friend Marcus Schouler. For ten points, name this novel about the husband of Trina Sieppe who desires a sign with a gold molar, a dentist created by Frank Norris.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: Haruki {Murakami}

This narrator cannot remember the shape of nose of the title figure, but wants to watch a Woody Allen movie with her in this author's “On Seeing a 100% Perfect Girl One Beautiful April Morning.”  A six feet tall super-frog talks about Dostoyevsky and saves a city in a story in this author's Blind [?] Willow, Sleeping Woman. In one of his novels, the protagonist dreams of a woman from the Dolphin Hotel, and Sheep Man, while in another story, a woman with polio who drags her feet is loved by the owner of two jazz bars. In addition to Dance, Dance, Dance, and writing about Hajime in South of the Border, West of the Sun, this author wrote about a Calcutec in Hard Boiled Wonderland and The End of the World. In other works, this man described Kumiko's husband Toru Okada, and created a novel alternating between the young Tamura and Nakata. For ten points, name this author of The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle and Kafka on the Shore.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: To A {Mouse}

This poem pairs bleak December's winds with foggage green because they are snell and keen. The author is “truly sorry man's dominion has broken Nature's social union,” and “daimen [?] icker in a thrave” describes the title figure's tendency to thieve. The title figure also saw fields “lay bare” and “wasted.” This poem ends “on prospects drear! An forward, tho I canna see, I guess an fear!” This poem notes that “the best laid schemes,” of a certain group “gang aft agley,” and declares “in proving foresight you may be vain,” “thou art no thy lane,” to the title creature. Beginning “Wee sleekit, cowrous, tim'rous beastie,” for ten points, name this poem by Robert Burns from which John Steinbeck used to name one of his novellas.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 440
answer: {Evangeline}

The final image in this poem is “the wail of the forest” after mentioning the deep-voiced neighboring ocean. One character compares a fever to wearing a spider in a nutshell around a neck, while another character tells a tale about a man disappearing after following his phantom lover into the woods, [?] Lilinau.  The end sees two characters buried in nameless graves because although one of them searched for the other at a Jesuit mission, no word of him was found at the Saginaw River before becoming a Sister of Mercy. One character goes into hiding because the town of Grand-Pre was burned, while Baptist Leblanc helps out the title character, whose father had died and been buried by Father Felician. For ten points, name this tale set in Acadie in which Gabriel Lajuenesse courts the daughter of Benedict Bellafontaine, written Henry Longfellow.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 439
answer: {Essais} or {Essays} (or like {Montaigne's Essais} or {Essays} of Montaigne)

This work uses the wisdom of the Daemon of Socrates to discredit oracles, and it maintains that drunkenness overthrows reasoning, and not just discomposes understanding, which is why it is the worst vice. Another section praises the author of Discourse on Voluntary Servitude, and this book argues against [?] torture because of false confessions. The author of this text wonders whether his cat is amusing herself more than he is amusing to her. In addition to this text citing Etienne de la Boetie for the work “On Friendship” and featuring “An Apology for Raymond Sebond,” this work talks about the man-eaters of Brazil in “On Cannibals.” For ten points, name this work containing the viewpoints of Michel Montaigne.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 450
answer: Samuel Barclay {Beckett}

In this author's first play, Madame Meck tries to convince Victor not to leave society and his family, and S.E. Gontarski asked this author to write a play about the gradual fading of lovers who sit at the end of a table and mention the Isle of Swans. In addition to [?] Eleutheria and Ohio Impromptu, he wrote about a narrator who feels no end and desires a room consisting of six flat surfaces without windows or doors, and another work about Willy and Winnie's conversations while buried in sand. In addition to The Unnamable and Happy Days, this author wrote a play that features a character that delivers a monologue while on a leash, but is then muted in the second act, whose first act begins with a discussion about boots. For ten points, name this creator of Estragon in his play Waiting for Godot.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 449
answer: The {Trial} or ({Der Prozess})

The protagonist of this work spends some time studying Italian verbs in order to show a man around a cathedral, and is lured out of his room by the sound of cooking equipment shattering, leading a woman to give him a [?] key. The protagonist is told of three types of outcomes: definite, ostensible, and indefinite postponement, from a man who sells him identical copies of landscapes, Titorelli. The protagonist earlier saw 2 men beaten in a lumber room, hired the incompetent Herr Huld, and lives on the property of Frau Grubach. This work ends with the protagonist “like a dog,” even though he was arrested 1 year earlier on his 30th birthday. For ten points, name this novel about Josef K., written by Franz Kafka.

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 451
answer: Pierre {Corneille}

The title character is opposed by Lacus and Martian in this author's work about the Emperor Otho, and one of his dramas begins with Clindor's father Pridamante approached by [?] Dorante in order to use the magician Alcendre to find her daughter. In another work, Maxime is enlisted by the title character to carry out a plan to assassinate Emperor Augustus. In addition to The Comic Illusion and Cinna this author that is the namesake of a dilemma involving harm to a person or a loved one also wrote about Armenian Christianity by having the title character martyr himself for Pauline and Felix in Polyeucte. Another play ends with the marriage of Chimene and the title character as ordered by Don Fernand. For ten points, name this man who created Rodrigue in Le Cid.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 445
answer: {Brave} New World

One character in this novel is a paparazzo that likes to use the word “Splendid!” and is ridiculously named after Charles Darwin and Napoleon Bonaparte. Another character says they train [?] their workers to associate topsy-turvydom with well-being. One song in this novel says "Melt in the music of the drums!" and "Annhilating Twelve in One." This novel that features an object described as "Christianity Without Tears," has a class structure split into five levels named for the letters inclusively between alpha and epsilon. The reservation of Malpais is home to a character in this novel that strikes back against sayings such as “A Gramme in time Saves Nine,” before talking to Mustapha Mond. Featuring the use of soma, for ten points, identify this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 450
answer: John {Keats}

This author that praised sleep as a “soft embalmer of the still midnight,” wrote a poem addressed to Thaddeus Koscuisko.  The phrase “That ancient Beardsman hear the prelude soft,” appears in a stanza about Porphyro and [?] Madeline running away. Another poetic work is about a demon revealed to be a snake after being made visible by Hermes. In another poem, this man that imagined “when a new planet swims into his ken,” surmised “bards in fealty to Apollo hold,” in a work where the narrator had “travell'd in the realms of gold.” In another work, this poet wrote about seeing "pale kings and princes too," and even though the title person “hath thee in thrall.” For ten points, name this man who looked into Chapman's translation of Homer and wrote La Belle Dame Sans Merci.

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: The {Optimist's} Daughter

The story of a crooked piece of stitching is used to illustrate the fear that haunts Verna Longmeier in this novel which asserts that surviving is the strangest fantasy of all. One character in this novel dreams about riding with her dead husband to Cairo, Illinois and [?] releases a bird stuck in her chimney. The protagonist overhears a conversation between Tennyson and Mrs. Pease, and Tom Farris has blindness in this work. One character nearly strikes a woman with a breadboard, while Rupert Bollock organizes a funeral one of the title figures, who listens to Charles Dickens being read after having detached retina surgery. For ten points, name this novel set in New Orleans and New Salus, Mississippi about Judge McKelva and her daughter Laura written by Eudora Welty.