####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PLAYOFFS ROUND 2.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 450
answer: {Pamela}: or Virtue Rewarded

One character writes a long poem at the end of this novel that begins “Warmly, once more, this rustic's cause you press whom genius dignifies, amidst distress,” while another character is discovered to be seeing Polly Barlow. Jacob [?] Swynford disapproves of the title character that uses sunflowers to mark the locations of highly sensitive information to be delivered to her parents. The protagonist catches a carp from a pond, then throws it back into the water. Among the people associated with the title character are an ex-prostitute, Mrs. Jewkes, and a man thrown into prison for smuggling letters out of the estate, Mr. Williams. For ten points, name this novel that sees Mr. B eventually marrying the title character, whose virtue was rewarded, and was written by Samuel Richardson.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 446
answer: {Sister Carrie}

The protagonist of this novel is allowed to keep some savings for a hat in the winter season and is taken to Garfield Park before being given 20 dollars after a huge lunch. This novel ends with a man using a gas jet to commit suicide in a [?] flophouse, and that character used to frequently stay in hotels looking at rich people. The protagonist uses the last name Wheeler while married, and assumes a pensive pose while on a rocking chair frequently. Bob Ames and the Vances help the protagonist join the stage, and that protagonist lives with Lola and is the subject of interest of Charles Drouet. For ten points, money is stolen from a salon by George Hurstwood in this work focusing on Caroline Meeber written by Theodore Dreiser.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 446
answer: Gunter {Grass}

This author wrote about the Polish Widow Alexandra and the German Alexander Reschke in one novel involving the purchases of graves, and in another, the 100 chapters represent the title period of time. In addition to The Call of the Toad, and My Century, this author wrote about Harry Libenau in a novel in which the half-Jew brother of [?] Materns makes scarecrows. In addition to a novel about the character of Amsel, the two characters Father Gusewski and Waldemar Khlose, appear in a novel about Joachim Mahlke and Piilenz, who are represented by the title animals. This author also wrote about Agnes having an affair with Jan Bronski, and her son who can shatter glass with his voice. For ten points, name this author of The Dog Years and Cat and Mouse that wrote about Oscar Matzerath in The Tin Drum.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 448
answer: {Robinson Crusoe} (either way)

This man purchases a stolen ship to sail to Cambodia before traveling to Siberia and using Archangelsk to sail to Hamburg. He becomes worried when he lost track of the days, because he cannot keep the Sabbath, and upon the anniversary of an event, he fasts for a full day, using the last of his [?] ink. This figure discovers a bunch of penguins, teaches a parrot to speak, and uses grapes to make raisins before slaying a lion and skinning it with his friend Xury. This man that threatened Islmail becomes rich due to investments maturing in Brazil before squaring off against 300 wolves. Fighting cannibals and finally escaping his fate by quelling a mutiny, for ten points, name this Alexander Selkirk derived Man of York that befriends Friday, the title character of a Daniel Defoe novel.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: The {Age} of {Innocence}

The protagonist of this book sends lilies-of-the-valleys to his wife every day and lies for Lawerence Lefferts. Its second half opens with a visit to Skuytercliff, where Madame Riviere is met. The protagonist's sister Jane and Sillerton [?] Jackson like to gossip in this work where Ned Winsett is a journalist. This novel that features the main character rebuked by his boss Mr. Letterblair sees Fanny, the son of Julius, marrying the brother of Mary. Medora and Manson Mingott, in addition to the van der Luydens, are representative of high society in this novel that ends with Dallas visiting Paris to visit Polish Countess Ellen Olenska with whom his father had an affair. For ten points, name novel focusing on May Welland and Newland Archer, written by Edith Wharton.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 444
answer: The {Kalevala}

The penultimate section of this work sees the forging of keys to release the sun and moon from the mountains, and this work details the protagonist's attempt to make a new harp-like instrument after his fell into the sea. Featuring [?] Surma, a guardian of an analogue of Manala, this text depicts a man who turns cows into bears to kill the wife of a blacksmith, as well as the slaughter of Untamo's tribe only after accidentally seducing his sister. This work also sees the Saari Isle as an Isle of Refuge and the protagonist crafting a wooden ship after dropping an axe into his foot in addition to having Ilmatar forming the world from an egg. For ten points, name this compilation featuring the Sampo maker Kulervo, Ilmarinen, and Vainomoinen, by Elias Lonnrot, clearly the most famous work of Finnish Literaure.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: {1001 Arabian Nights} (Accept reasonably equivalent stuff, like 1001 Tales or {Arabian} Stories)

One part of this work sees the titular ruler of four mountains build a House of Lamentations and deal with his wife. In addition to a story about “Young King of the Black Isles,” One part of this collection details a table where a thousand one eyed kings have eaten that is found by members of a quest to discover a [?] golden ship Solomon had used, while another part sees the title vehicle being operated with keys that can voyage to the sun. In addition to “The City of Brass” and “The Ebony Horse,” a fisherman discovers a mirror world wherein money does not exist in an underwater environment in another part of this work. The most famous character in this work visits Serendib and had previously angered a Roc. For ten points, identify these vignettes that enchanted Shahryar and saved Scheherazade's life.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 451
answer: John {Barth}

This author collected Tell Me, I've Been Told, and As I Was Saying into Where Three Roads Meet, and he described the Heron Bay Estates in his The Development. This author wrote about the Wicomico State Teachers College Employee Joe Morgan in his novel about Jacob [?] Hormer, and another novel focuses on the title work of art “Original and Unparalleled,” produced by Captain Adam in a story about Todd Andrews. In addition to The End of the Road and The Floating Opera, he created a character who wants to be a Grand Tutor after visiting New Tammany, as well as another man taught by Henry Burlingame, Ebeneezer Cooke, who is the son of a tobacco farmer. For ten points, name this author of Giles Goat Boy and The Sot-weed Factor.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 445
answer: {Horace} or {Quintus Horatius Flaccus}

This author that wrote “Although Calabrian bees don't bear me honey, my wine doesn't mellow in a Lestrygonian Vat,” wrote about his sensual encounter with Ligurinus. This man that celebrated a Bandusian Fountain, noted “Brave [?] Men Lived Before Agamemmnon” after referring “to the Sibylline Books and discussing the “Alban Steel,” while calling Apollo the “Augur and Lord of Silver Bow” in his work that glorifies three gods, “Song of the Ages.” This author of Carmen Saeculare that wrote “It is sweet and honorable to die for one's country” also coined the phrase “in medias res” in his “Ars Poetica.” For ten points, name this author of Odes and Epodes, a notable Roman who asserted “carpe diem.”

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: Italo {Calvino}

In one of this author's works, Isohar is the target of Raimbau, due to a system of “besmirched honor,” which causes Torrismund to be sought by Agilulf. In a story, a game of marbles is played with hydrogen atoms, while another sees monthly voyages to the moon done by Mr. Vhd Vhd. In addition to The [?] Non-Existent Knight and Cosmicomics, this author created a man who spies on a cheese shop, Mr. Palomar, and in another work a canon ball halves Merdado. In addition to The Cloven Viscount, he wrote about tarot cards being used in a Tavern of Crossed Destinies. “Without Fear of Wind or Vertigo,” is a chapter in a book by this author that begins with the reader returning a book. For ten points, name this author that imagined conversations between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan in his Invisible Cities and wrote If on a Winter's Night a Traveler.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 444
answer: Mario Vargas {Llosa}

This author that described Arlette as Lily and her admirer Ricardo Somocurcio wrote about Flora Tristand in a novel about Paul Gaugin. In addition to The Bad Girl and The [?] Way to Paradise, he described Hortensia being slain for trying to blackmail Fermin in the title discussion that Santiago Zavala and Ambrosio Cerda engage in, and in another novel, he created Gallileo Gall in which the Lord of the Canudos is assumed to be Antonio Conselheiro. In addition to Conversation in the Cathedral and The War of the End of the World, Corporal Lituma and Tomas Carreno square off against the “Shining Path,” and Pedro Comacho is the other title character who produces soap operas. For ten points name this author of Death in the Andes and Aunt Julia and the Script Writer.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: {A Good Man is Hard to Find}

One character in this work recalls a time wherein dirt roads limit a full day's journey to 30 miles, while two characters play a game featuring a guess on the shape of clouds. Another character apologizes to ladies for not having his [?] shirt on, and that character is told to be “one of my babies…one of my own children,” by a character who “would have been a good woman…if it had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life.” The central event is precipitated because of Pitty Sing, a cat in a basket. After stopping at Red Sammy's, a car accident causes John Wesley and June Star to be killed by Hiram and Bobby Lee, while the Grandmother is slain by the Misfit. For ten points, name this Flannery O'Connor short story.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: None
seen: 442
answer: Oe Kenzaburo

This author wrote about Brother Gii in Till the Savior Be Struck Down and On the Great Day, both part of his Flaming Green Tree Trilogy. Another story by this author has the narrator sing “Happy Days Are Here Again,” as he wears [?] cellophane goggles after being irradiated by a chrysanthemum. In another, Harelip rescues an American pilot downed in his village. In addition to “The Day He Himself Shall Wipe My Tears Away” and “The Catch,” another of his novels features the obese nurse Jin, and the one-eyed narrator who uses his eye socket for introspection. That novel features an innovative use of a cucumber. For ten points, name this author of Silent Cry who drew on his mentally retarded son for Teach us to Outgrow Our Madness.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 445
answer: {Christmas}

Lord Byron described stories of this sort being “tortured into rhyme,” and Uncle Franz replaces children with wax figures in a title about its annual occurrence. It titles a type of rose in a story about Robber Father and Abbot Hans written by [?] Selma Lagerlof. Chinua Achebe wrote about this tradition in Biafra, while the thieving scheme of James Ryder is investigated shortly after it in “The Blue Carbuncle.” A novel named for it features Old Fezzwig, and this tradition provides the backdrop for a story involving the purchase of turtle shell combs and the sale of Della's hair. For ten points, name this holiday at the center of “The Gift of the Magi,” which titles a novel featuring Jacob Marley written by Charles Dickens.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 446
answer: {Li Po}

This author described “The stone gate of the hollow heaven … revealing a vast realm of azure without bottom,” and “the peach blossoms and the flowing waters going off to mysterious dark” when he was asked why he lodged in emerald hills. In addition to writing about the [?] “Eastern Isle of Bliss” in “His Dream of the Skyland” and “Dialogue in the Mountains,” the speaker of one of his poems says “I desired my dust to be mingled with yours,” and how he wants to see the addressee “If you are coming down through the narrows of the river Kiang.” In another work, the title action is done “among the flowers, and without friends.” For ten points, name this author that wrote about drinking a jug of wine by the moonlight whose poem “The River Merchant's Wife: A Letter,” was translated by Ezra Pound.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: Zora Neale {Hurston}

This author described the dog Tippy getting sentenced to death for stealing food and Mrs. Merchant curing Jim with “Turpentine Love.” She also described Otis Slemmons opening an [?] ice cream parlor in a story about Missie May having an affair, and another story shows a rattlesnake killing Sykes the husband of Delia Jones. This author of “The Gilded Six-Bits” and “Sweat” described Good Bread and Hiram Lester in a novel about Joe Willard's girlfriend who is defended by Big Sweet in the novel Mules and Men. In addition to writing about Spunk getting shot after he pulls a razor on Joe, she imagined the wife of Joe Starks and Logan Killicks killing Tea Cake. For ten points, name this anthropological author that wrote about Janie Crawford in Their Eyes Were Watching God.

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 446
answer: Tom {Stoppard}

This man described a couple trying to bribe Holmes with a banana in a play featuring Foot before writing about Anish Das and Flora Crew in the two plays After Magritte and Indian [?] Ink. This author that wrote about Charlotte and Max performing The House of Cards in the play The Real Thing collaborated with Andre Previn in his Every Good Boy Deserves Favor. Mikhail Bakunin and Ivan Turgenev were integrated by this author's, The Coast of Utopia. The title characters of another of his plays hop into barrels when pirates attack a ship after their friend performs The Murder of Gonzago. For ten points, name this author that created a man that gets lots of heads after flipping coins in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: None
seen: 443
answer: The {Way} of the {World}

One character in this play gets drunk and sings "Let Mahometan fools Live by heathenish rules" before a lady threatens to bastinado him with broomsticks. Another asserts that the devil should be painted with [?] a driveller with bib and bells. A plot is revealed to marry the protagonist's love interest to his own uncle by Petulant and Witwoud when the protagonist is playing cards in a chocolate house. Its second act is set at St. James Park where two characters discuss how men are vipers and how Mrs. Marwood and Fainall are having an affair, which they use to foil a plan for Lady Wishful's daughter to inherit 6,000 pounds. For ten points identify this play in which Millamant marries Mirabel, a play by William Congreve.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Wystan Hugh {Auden}

This author that began a poem by comparing a spring day to a locker room showed “all the clocks in the city, whirring and chiming in a poem that describes “lovers, they were gone…the deep river ran on.” In another poem, the title character had "everything necessary to the [?] modern Man," and was found to be the one with "no official complaint," by the Bureau of Statistics. In addition to "As I walked Out One Evening" and "The Unknown Citizen," he wrote of aeroplanes "scribbling on the sky the message He is Dead,” and called a man "my North, my South, my East and West." That poem orders "Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone." For ten points, name this poet who said "cut off the telephone," and "Stop all the clocks," in Funeral Blues who wrote The Age of Anxiety.

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 446
answer: John {Milton}

One of this author's poems sees “All in a robe of darkest grain, flowing with majestick train,” and pairs the Hairy Gown with the Mossy Cell before concluding “These pleasures [?] Melancholy give, And I with thee will choose to live.” In another poem, “The Willows, and the Hazle Copses green, shall no more be seen” and depicts “down the swift Hebrus to the Lesbian shore.” That poem by this man asks “weep no more, woful Shepherds,” and “melt with ruth,” after instructing “look homeward angel.” In another, this man says “God Doth not need either man's work or His own gifts,” before realizing “They also serve who only stand and wait,” in a poem where this author considered “how my light is spent.” For ten points, Il Penseroso and Lycidas, were written by what author of Paradise Lost?