####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PRELIMS ROUND 3.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 442
answer: Eugene {Ionesco}

One director of one of this author's plays has Death play a guitar before a plague annihilates 30,000 people in one day. In addition to writing The Killing Game and A Stroll in the Air, another of this author's plays features a doctor who informs the titular figure that cows are giving birth twice a day and Mars and Saturn have collided before the husband of Marie and Marguerite fades into the mist in this author's Exit the King. This guy wrote of a man and a woman jumping out of windows and dying at the same time in a work where the Orator delivers a message to the invisible people represented by the titular chairs. He also prepared an extremely English setting for a play in which the Fire Chief comes to visit the Smiths and Martins, as well as another play that features Berenger watching Jean growing a horn. For ten points, name this author of The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 442
answer: The {Tell Tale Heart}

The protagonist of this work has a minute that moves slower than that of a watch, and he remains still for an hour when his thumb slipped upon the fastening of a lantern. He notes that he "heard all things in the heaven and the earth," and that "For his gold I had no desire." At four o'clock in the morning, the narrator of this story places chairs in a bedroom for his guests, who had visited him because a neighbor reported the shriek of a man that the narrator killed with a mattress. With an insistence that the unnamed narrator is sane because he is calculating, the evil blue eye of a man forces the narrator to murder him, who then confesses when the titular body part pulsates through the floor. For ten points identify this Edgar Poe short story.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 444
answer: Willa {Cather}

This author created a boarding house for sailors run by La Grenouille in a work where Jacque Gaux stays with Cecile, the daughter of the Canadian apothecary Euclide Auclaire. In another story, this author wrote about the title character drowning in a freezing lake after being taught the piano by Paul Auerbach and refusing the marriage proposal of Harry Gordon. In addition to Shadows on the Rock and Lucy Gayheart, the friend of Julius Erlich voyages across the Atlantic on the Anchises and perishes in World War I in her novel about Claude Wheeler. This author imagined Maria Shabata in love with Emil, whose sister eventually marries Carl Linstrum at the end of a novel about Alexandra Bergson.. For ten points, name this author of One of Ours and O Pioneers that created Jim Burden in My Antonia.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: The {Lower Depths} or {Na dne}

One character in this play tells about a man that kills himself because he really isn't in a land of justice. It begins with characters arguing over a marriage proposal, insulting a woman for reading a romance novel and getting another to eat some dumplings. The lyrics “But my prison is all dark,” is sung in this play that features a locksmith who has to sell his anvil to cover for his wife's funeral costs. This play also sees a card game being played by A Tartar and Zoba, who likes to sing songs with the capmaker Bubnoff. Ending with Pepel jailed with Wassilissa, for ten points, identify this work in which Sahtin and Luka discuss false realities and the actor suicides, a social realist play written by Gorky.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 435
answer: Naguib {Mahfouz}

This man collected his supernatural stories in Seventh Heaven and described a man being told by a voice to assault a girl in Whispers of Madness. He chronicled his own life in Echoes of an Autobiography and expanded his themes in One Hour Remains into a work about a man murdered the same day as his country's leader. He described a man who stays with Nur and attempts to kill journalist Rauf only to be hunted down by the title animals and he wrote of Arafa attempting to kill a man whose progeny includes Adham and Qassem. In addition to The Thief and the Dogs and The Children of Gebelawi, Ahmad marries Yasin in his Palace of Desire, which is the second part of a work that ends with Sugar Street. For ten points, name this author of the Cairo Trilogy.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: The {Prophet}

At one point, this work notes that you are a breath in God's Sphere and a leaf in God's forest. One of this book's commands is to say “I have found a truth” instead of “I have found the truth,” and it also asks “who shall command the skylark not to sing?” Beauty is presented as “eternity gazing at itself in the mirror,” which is heard shouting among the mountains by the restless. It describes evil as good tortured by hunger and thirst, pleasure as a freedom song and ends by affirming “There are no graves here.” Beginning with “The Coming of the Ship,” this work ends with Almitra the seeress blessing the day and thanking the title figure before leaving Orphalese. For ten points, identify this collection of 26 poetic compositions on life narrated by Almustafa, written by Khalil Gibran.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: Aristophanes

Some of this man's lesser known dramas includes The Frying-Pan Men and one in which supply boats complain about their jobs, Merchant Ships. One of his plays features the title characters trying to pass a law making all men sleep with an ugly woman before a beautiful one. One of his plays begins with a net encompassing a house, and yet another sees a farmer ride up to heaven on a dung beetle. Another play sees his rival author collaborate with Mnesilochus after angering the titular peoples. He also wrote about a sausage seller besting Paphalagonian and the phrase "Brekekekex koax koax," is uttered in hell by the titular beings in another of his plays. For ten points, name this Athenian Old Comedian who wrote about women giving up sex in Lysistrata.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 449
answer: The {Great Gatsby}

The title character is visited by Henry Palmetto, who kills himself with a train, and Ripley Snell, whose right hand was run over by Ulysses Swett's automobile. Francis Cugat designed the cover for this novel that features a gypsy who moves her hand like a Frisco. One character plays "ONE THINGS' FOR SURE AND NOTHING'S SURER / THE RICH GET RICHER AND THE POOR GET CHILDREN," a song called "The Love Nest," while another reads The Rise and Fall of the Colored Empires. That reader breaks the nose of his mistress when they discuss whether she has any right to say his wife's name, where the McGees are in attendance and the narrator gets drunk for the second time in his life. Another character in this novel wears cuff links made of molars and rigs the 1919 World Series. For ten points, West Egg is the partial setting of what Nick Carraway narrated Jazz Age novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: The {Great Gatsby}

The title character is visited by Henry Palmetto, who kills himself with a train, and Ripley Snell, whose right hand was run over by Ulysses Swett's automobile. Francis Cugat designed the cover for this novel that features a gypsy who moves her hand like a Frisco. One character plays "ONE THINGS' FOR SURE AND NOTHING'S SURER / THE RICH GET RICHER AND THE POOR GET CHILDREN," a song called "The Love Nest," while another reads The Rise and Fall of the Colored Empires. That reader breaks the nose of his mistress when they discuss whether she has any right to say his wife's name, where the McGees are in attendance and the narrator gets drunk for the second time in his life. Another character in this novel wears cuff links made of molars and rigs the 1919 World Series. For ten points, West Egg is the partial setting of what Nick Carraway narrated Jazz Age novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: Guy de {Maupassant} (Prompt on Mont-Oriol)

A piece of property with a spring on it is discovered by Father Oriol and then sold to William Andermatt in a novel by this author. Another novel sees Gerome Roland' sons squabbling over Leon Marechal's inheritance and he described Georges Duroy climbing the social ladder. In addition to writing Pierre et Jean and Bel Ami, the unnamed narrator of another story feels like he is strangled in his sleep by the title Brazilian Vampire in this author's “The Horla.” The protagonist of another story attends an event hosted by George Ramponneau from The Ministry of Education. That event causes Madame Forestier to reveal the title object was made of paste at the end of this author's story about Mathilde Loisel. For ten points, name this author of "The Necklace."

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: {cherry}

One character named after this fruit travels to South Africa with the title characters to observe the transit of Venus, meeting a preternatural talking Learned English Dog along the way, and that character relates his tale to Pitt and Pliny. In addition to the Reverend from Mason and Dixon, this fruit was part of a bough that "some officious fool  broke” in Robert Browning's My Last Duchess and it "stands about the woodland ride, wearing white for Eastertide," as it "is hung with bloom along the bough," in Housman's Loveliest of Trees. This fruit titles a work in which Fiers dies after being abandoned by Yasha. In that work Lopakhin purchases the titular estate from Ranevskya. For ten points identify this fruit that names an Orchard in a Chekov play.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 438
answer: Doris {Lessing} (Accept Briefing for a Descent Into Hell early)

A Cambridge professor deciding whether the apocalyptic vision from his psyche's space-time is a hallucination is the subject of this author's novel about Charles Watkins titled Briefing for a Descent into Hell. Another novel focuses on Alice's attempts to stop The Council, her membership with the Communist Centre Union, and her relationship with Jasper. Another novel featuring Marston and Moses chronicles the tumultuous relationship between Mary and Dick, who live together on a farm in Africa. In addition to The Good Terrorist and The Grass is Singing, this author wrote about the unifications of "The Shadow of the Third," with Anna Wulf's communist background in her novel The Golden Notebook. For ten points, name this winner of the 2007 Nobel Prize in Literature.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 437
answer: In {Memoriam}

One part of this work that sees “the mystic glory swim away” discusses "A life in civic action warm ... a pillar in a steadfast storm," and that part begins by noting how "tis held that sorrow makes us wise." This poetic work that wonders “what hope is there for modern rhyme” ends by cataloguing "One god, one law, one element, and one far-off divine event, to which the whole of creation moves." Its speaker does not "wage any feud with Death" and "dream'd there would be Spring no more," before asking bells to "ring out the old ... ring in the new." Beginning "STRONG Son of God, immortal love," it celebrates Edward Lushinton's marriage to Cecilia. For ten points, "Tis better to have loved and lost than to never have loved at all," refer to Arthur Henry Hallam, in what Tennyson poem?

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: {Major Barbara}

This work that has a preface citing Charles Lever sees one character thinking that using the materiel at Woolwich Arsenal to kill tons of poor people will provide extra security to his mind. Another character has parents whose marriage is valid in Australia, but not in England. In it, Lord Saxmundham of Bodger's Whiskey is willing to donate five thousand pounds to Mrs. Baines, a sum which is matched by the owner of Perivale St. Andrews. Rummy and Snobby Price please Jenny Hill by lying about their crimes and Bill Walker attacks Mitchens in this play that ends with the middle child of Lady Britomart and Andrew Undershaft attempting to convert the factory workers to God after resigning from the Salvation Army. For ten points, name this play by George Bernard Shaw.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 448
answer: To a {Skylark}

This poem that imagines "Our sincerest laughter, with some pain is fraught, Our sweetest song are those that tell of saddest thought" also imagines the “sound of vernal showers, on the twinkling grass.” It asks "What objects are the fountains of thy happy strain?" and the addressee is "like a star of heaven in the broad daylight, thou art unseen, but yet I hear thy shrill delight" and it is "like a poet hidden, in the light of thought," in addition to being "like a high-born maiden in a palace tower." Also saying “how could thy notes flow in such a crystal stream?" this poem ends with an image of "harmonious madness" and saying the world should listen as the speaker is now. Beginning "Hail to thee, blithe spirit," for ten points identify this poem addressed to a bird written by Percy Shelley.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: A {Death} in the {Family}

Some children in this novel think a priest is demonic, so they have many fantasies on how he dies. A ferryman is about to charge two times the normal price for the protagonist, but decides to charge half that when he sees a wagon going to town. One character in this work likes the way the Victoria smells, and this work sees Sally's husband Ralph as an undertaker with alcoholism. Walter Starr comforts the central group in this work that sees a tale told about a butterfly landing on a coffin, which incurs the ire of Father Jackson. Catherine is a young girl who is oblivious to most events, as opposed to Mary's son Rufus who genuinely is hurt because of the title tragedy in Knoxville. For ten points, identify this work in which Jay Follett perishes in a car crash, a novel of James Agee.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Gwendolyn {Brooks}

This author wrote about a woman being described as crazy because she waited until November instead of May to sing a song. In another poem, she wrote “I hold my honey and I store my bread,” in “my dreams, my works, must wait til after hell.” In addition to writing “The sun is a lode,” in “The Anniad,” the title figure of her novel reads Of Human Bondage with her husband Paul Philips and is the daughter of Belva Brown. This author that set a lot of her works in Bronzeville, wrote the poetry collection In the Mecca, but is best known for a poem in The Bean Eaters. For ten points, name this author of Maud Martha that wrote about figures that “thin gin,” strike straight,” “Jazz June” and “Die Soon,” in her poem We Real Cool.

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 439
answer: The {Queen} of {Spades} or {Pikovaya dama}

One character in this story has the "profile of Napoleon and the soul of Mephistopheles," while another character wants to read novels that feature no people drowning. In the final chapter, the protagonist asserts the time is "five minutes to a seven," and imagines the number seven as a gothic arch. Earlier, the main character imagines a corpse in a chest winking at him, as does the title object in the end before he ends up in Room 17 of Obuhovsky Asylum. Earlier, he had killed an 87-year old countess by scaring her to death with a gun, whose apparition later reveals the way to get rich by faro. Tchekalinsky loses his money on the first two days, but wins against Hermann, in for ten points, what Alexander Pushkin work that was made into a Tchaikovsky opera named for a card?

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 440
answer: Romance of the {3 Kingdoms} or {sânguó y?nyì}

One character in this work attempts to assassinate a man using a sword, but presents it to his victim as a gift instead, and another part sees an entire army set ablaze by the opposing general. One strategy in this work involved playing the zither in front of a city with its gates open allowing time for a retreat as the advancing army's commander anticipated an ambush. This novel also features the Valley of the Fallen Phoenix, where one character is impaled with arrows. It features three men administering the "Oath of the Peach Garden," and its Battle of the Red Cliff saw Liu Bei and Sun Quan retreat. For ten points, identify this novel written that chronicles the turmoil initiated by the Yellow Turban Revolt as the titular entities vie for power in the 3rd century.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: {Sense} and {Sensibility}

One character in this novel wears a ring with a lock of hair in it and has been engaged to a woman for four years. Minor characters in this work include Mrs. Richardson, who takes characters to Kensington Garden, the tutor Mr. Pratt and the apothecary Mr. Harris that determines one character will survive the flu. That flu prompts a man running for parliament, Mr. Palmer to leave their home. Part of this novel that is set at Cleveland and Norland sees Lucy marry Robert instead of his brother after disowned by his mother, and she is invited to the home of John and Fanny. One of the protagonists decides Colonel Brandon is the right choice after rejecting John Willoughby. For ten points, name this novel in which Edward Ferrars marries Elinor, the sister of Marianne Dashwood, written by Jane Austen.

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: Authors created by {Jorge} Luis {Borges} (As {long} as they {see} the {link} is {Borges}, they are {fine})

One author of this type decided to glorify Fergus Kilpatrik, while another author spent one year finishing The Enemies before being killed by Nazis. Another author of this sort published experimental works such as a short story collection designed to upset the reader and a novel with nine beginnings and one ending. Those works are Statements and April March, and the aforementioned authors are Jaromir Hladik and Herbert Quain. Another author of this type translated Paul Valery's “The Graveyard By the Sea,” wrote a symbolist sonnet for La Conque, and described how to improve chess by striking out one of the rooks' pawns in addition to being the author of the title work of literature and not Cervantes. Another author of this sort is Tsui Pen, who wrote the novel The Garden of Forking Paths. For ten points, name this type of fictional authors, such as Pierre Menard, all created by a blind Argentinian.