####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PRELIMS ROUND 1.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 439
answer: {songs} (accept {chants} before {Habersham})

One work whose title contains this poetic formo describes a man wanting to scratch humans to make them bleed, but then helping them so that they think he is a hero. In addition Lautreamont's these of Maldoror, another poem with this form in its title begins “Out of the hills of Habersham,” while yet another states “I think I shall never see a billboard as lovely as a tree.” In addition to Ogden Nash's one about “an Open Road,” and Sidney Lanier's one about the Chattahoochee, this term appears in the title of a work that features “a barbaric yawp,” and it also appears in the titles of books about Thea Kronburg and Gary Gilmore. For ten points, Walt Whitman wrote of himself with what poetic form that belonged to an executioner in a Norman Mailer novel?

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: John {Webster}

This author worked with Rowley in A Cure for a Cuckold and with Chettle, Dekker and Heywood for Christmas Comes Once a Year. In addition to the some of the playwrights already mentioned, he collaborated with Smith for Lady Jane. His own works include Monuments of Honor, A Monumental Column and The Devil's Law Case, and he worked with Dekker again for his Northward Ho! and Westward Ho! In one his plays written by himself, the title figure is convicted of adultery even though Isabella and the Duke of Bracciano are murdered. In addition to that play about Vittoria Corombona, he wrote a drama that ends with a blood bath featuring the stabbings of Bosola, Delio, the Cardinal and Ferdinand. For ten points, name this author of The White Devil and The Duchess of Malfi.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: William Carlos {Williams}

This man noted “the tall, dried grasses, a goat stirs, with nozzle searching the ground,” in his “The Desolate Field,” and he chronicled “The Last Words of my English Grandmother.” In addition to saying “leaning a pyramid of sunlight,” in his “Overture to a Dance of Locomotives,” he asked “what sort of man was Fragonard,” in his poem that shares its name with a T.S. Eliot work, “Portrait of a Lady.” The title object is “like a butter cup, upon its branching stem,” in this author's “Asphodel, That Greeny Flower,” and he also wrote “unsignificantly off the coast, there was a splash unnoticed” in a poem found in his Pictures from Brueghel. This author also praised a city “under the Passaic Falls” and a certain thing glazed with rainwater. For ten points, name this poet of Paterson and “The Red Wheelbarrow.”

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 448
answer: Isabelle {Allende} Llona

One of this author's works focuses on the two dates September 11th 1973 and September 11th 2001, while another work features the socialist Cyrus giving lectures on social justice and Carmen instructing Gregory Reeve, a preacher of the title ideal that has the meaning of life. In addition to writing My Invented Country and The Infinite Plan, the gold rush of California hitting the lives of Joaqun Andieta and Eliza Summers is the subject of this author's prequel to Portrait in Sepia, her novel Daughter of Fortune. This writer also wrote about the snake bitten Consuelo conceiving Eva Luna, and in another work Clara says Alba is blessed by the stars. That work focuses on Pedro Tercero and Blanca Trueba. For ten points, name this author of The House of Spirits.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 443
answer: The {Name} of the {Rose} or {Il Nome della Rosa}

This novel ends with the narrator feeling like the phrase “Tolle et lege” has been sent from heaven. The protagonists will suffocate if they are unable to find the “end of Africa,” or the finis Africae in this work that features a crazy man eating a book laced with poison, the comedy section of the Poetics. The author of this work described the relevance of a spiral staircase and the Fraticelli in a “Postscript” to this novel. The library causes the protagonist to lose his reading glasses to the blind Jorge of Borgos in this work that is split into 7 days. This novel that features Adso of Melk as an investigator also sees Venantius discovered in a vat of blood. For ten points, name this novel that sees William of Baskerville investigate murders in a monastery, by Umberto Eco.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 440
answer: A {Connecticut Yankee} In King Arthur's Court

This work features a lasso that apparently belongs to an undersea demon and is spent after 8 uses. The protagonist of this novel spends 3 pennies on breakfast, and learns from Hugo that he killed a deer, which occurs after the main character purchases a bunch of hogs and lets them go free. This work sees The Valley of Holiness's spring go dry, and a traveling companion geting rid of a dirk purchased while traveling incognito. The protagonist and his wife Sandy move to France to have a daughter near the end of this novel that sees the prediction of a solar eclipse, the use of a handgun and electric fences to cause some destruction, and Merlin putting the protagonist asleep for 1300 years. For ten points, name this novel in which Hank Morgan time travels to mess up Camelot, written by Mark Twain.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 446
answer: Philip {Roth}

3 boy scouts are shot when they accuse the President of U.S. of supporting intercourse, and Trick Dixon runs against Satan to become President of Hell in this author's Our Gang. This author's wrote about Marcus Messner in his most recent novel, Indignation, and created the friend of Paul Herz, a man who likes Henry James in his second novel. In addition to writing about Gabe Wallach in Letting Go, this man created a dean of Athena College, Coleman Silk in addition to writing about Amy Bellette and E.I. Lonoff in his novel The Ghost Writer. This man pictured Henry Ford as the Secretary of the Interior and Charles Lindbergh as President in The Plot against America. For ten points, name this author of The Human Stain and Portnoy's Complaint, who probably will never win a Nobel Prize because the committee hates Americans.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 442
answer: {Apollyon}

Even though the protagonist complains to this character that his wages are meager, this character chooses to pay him "what our country will afford." When the protagonist refuses, he notes how many transgressors he has put to shameful death, and how many he has delivered by power or fraud. Upon first encountering him, the protagonist notes how he has no armor and that it is easier to run away than to pierce this character with darts. This being notes how the protagonist nearly fainted at the Gulf of Despond, before firing a flaming arrow at the protagonist, before spreading his dragon wings so that this semi-fish, semi-lion demon flies away. For ten points, identify this fiend in the Valley of Humiliation that fights Christian in Pilgrim's Progress, which is sometimes known as Abaddon.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Octavio {Paz}

This man published his Charles Eliot Norton Lectures as Children of the Mire, and wrote the essay collection The Siren and the Seashell. This man argued that natives of his home country, chases, mocks, courts, and hugs death, and he also stated that poetry is written with a situation between tautness and resolve, as indicated by the two title instruments of another essay. This poet was made ambassador to India, which figured into his work about Hanuman, the titular Monkey Grammarian. This author of The Bow and the Lyre that implored “gate of our being, awaken me, bring dawn” imagined a “willow of crystal” in a work whose lines correspond to every day of the Aztec Calendar. For ten points, name this Mexican author of The Labyrinth of Solitude and The Sun Stone, a 1990 Nobel Laureate.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 448
answer: {Don Quixote}

One character associated with this man kisses the feet of a man dressed in all green, while this character accuses the owner of a prophesizing ape, Master Peter, of being associated with the devil and asks that ape about an experience in a cave which features a heart being given to Bellerma. This man is informed that his brain is melting as evidenced by milk curds. This man is nearly arrested by a man of the Holy Brotherhood, and had earlier mistaken a wash basin, as equipment for Mambrino. This man is beaten by the White Moon Knight, and then goes home as ordered by Carrasco. This figure that is carried by Rocinante mistakes Aldonza for Dulcinea. For ten points, name this character that tilts at windmills, assisted by Sancho Panza.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 445
answer: {Midnight's Children}

At one point, to ignore the cries of ghosts, three characters fill their ears with mud before they visit a temple where they are entranced by women for countless nights. One character uses newspaper clippings to make Lila's husband suspicious that she is having an affair with Homi Comtrack, while another loves Eveline Burns even though she loves the Brass Monkey's lover Jamila. The protagonist's wife dies in the Magician's Ghetto in this novel that ends with him working at a pickle factory. This novel that features the protagonist undergoing sinus surgery, marrying Parvati the Witch, and being friendly to Shiva features many characters born near the exact minute of India's independence. For ten points, name this “Booker of Bookers” featuring Saleem Sinai written by Salman Rushdie.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: Stephen Crane

This author asked “Why do you strive for greatness fool? Go pluck a bough and war it,” in a work where a “creature, naked, bestial,” has a bitter heart. In one tale, Scratchy Wilson upsets the title character that catches the attention of Jack Potter, a policeman in charge of the title town. In another work, Billie is the only person to die in a work inspired by the author's voyage on the Commodore. In another work, Pete is convinced by Nellie to desert the title character. This author of The Black Riders wrote about Wilson giving the protagonist a yellow envelope in a novel that sees the tattered soldier shot twice. For ten points, name this author of The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky, The Open Boat, Maggie: a Girl of the Streets, who created Henry Fleming in his The Red Badge of Courage.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: The {Human Comedy} or La {Comedie Humaine}

This work's philosophic section includes Melmoth Reconciled, The Executioner, and A Drama on the Seashore. One character in it is Paquita Valdes, a girl with golden eyes seduced by Henri de Marsay, while a man in this work does not earn the favor of Fauborg Saint-Germain, Lucien Chardon. Hermeneutic and proairetic are two of the five codes that Roland Barthes used to analyze the character of Sarrasine in this work, which also includes Lost Illusions. In another section, a daughter receives two dresses and a piece of gold from her parents every birthday, while Delphine but not Anastasie de Restaud is chosen by Eugene Rastignac in another part of this work whose characters include Eugenie Grandet and Pere Goriot. For ten points, name this novel cycle written by Honore Balzac.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 446
answer: Friedrich {Schiller}

In one of this author's plays, Max and Thekla predicts the downfall of the former's father, while in another Andreas Doria attempts to suppress the subtitutlar event, the Genoese conspiracy. In addition to The Piccolomini and Fiesco, this author that wrote about Miller and Luise in a play about the two title qualities depicted Leicester loveing the title figure that has a counterpart who uses Lord Burleigh and Wilhelm Davidson to execute her. In addition to Mary Stuart and writing about Franz and Karl in The Robbers, a glorious victory instead of a burning at the stake and being convicted of witchcraft await the title character in this another of author's plays, who also wrote about a man shooting an apple off of his son's head. For ten points, name this author of The Maid of Orleans and William Tell.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: {Outlaws} of the {Marsh} or {Water Margin} or All {Men} Are {Brothers} or {Shu?h? Zhuàn}

Some of the characters in this work include one nicknamed the “Iron Whistle” for his excellent singing, and a man who has a red beard leading to his nickname of The Life-Summoning Judge from Hell. It also features a doctor who can cure four hundred horse diseases and a man who uses magic talismans to travel 25,000 meters in a short period of time. A lumberjack in the penultimate chapter of this novel raises a namesake rebellion, while another character in this work kills his sister-in-law, Pan, after she has an affair with Ximen in Kaifeng. This work begins with a description of Gau Qiu, and much of it is set on Mt. Wutai. The emperor offers amnesty the “heavenly spirits” and “earthly fiends,” both of which comprise the 108 “Stars of Destiny.” For ten points, name this novel set in the Song Dynasty with a title referring to a wet region of China.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: The {Skin of Our Teeth}

One character in this play asks the audience to offer up their chairs to the two ushers along the stage while characters like Mr. Tremayne and Hester replace a bunch of actors who have suffered from food poisoning. The final scene of this drama has the stage going completely black for a moment before concluding that this play isn't finished. A blind beggar with a guitar named Homer appears in this play whose central family is visited by the Muses. The maid in the first and final acts is replaced by a beauty queen in the second act of this drama whose central family includes Gladys and Henry. That family is visited by animals from Noah's Ark and Moses. George Antrobus is a character in, for ten points, what play that features ice ages and purports to tell the history of humans written by Thornton Wilder?

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 440
answer: The {Duino Elegies}

This work argues that “We arrange it. It collapses. We arrange it again, and collapse ourselves.” The phrase “Here is the age of the sayable, here is its home,” appears in one part of this work which presents the image “They stand at the foot of the mountains, And there she embraces him singing.” Another part describes “the core of a shining apple,” and relates it to a “child's death grey bread,” and that part begins by asking the trees of life “when are you wintering?” This work also asks have you remembered “Gastara Stampa sufficiently yet?” and “Weren't you amazed by the caution of human gestures on Attic steles?” The phrases “the creature gazes into the openness with all,” and “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?” begin 2 of the 10 poems in this cycle. For ten points, name this set of ten poems written by Rainer Rilke.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 444
answer: {Brobdingnag} ({we can} be {lenient} on the {pronunciation})

The king is the owner of this country's library that contains only 1000 volumes, and it is found on the coast of California. Its only fields of discipline are ethics, history, poetry and mathematics. Their science is limited to practical applications, and all literary styles are very clear. Herman Moll's depiction of this country that was discovered in 1703, placed it on a landmass separated from New Albion by the Strait of Annian. This country has a strip of volcanoes in the northeast, which separates it from an unknown land, and its largest city is Lorbrulgud. The narrator who visits this land is dumped in a bowl of cream by a dwarf and discovered by a farmer that satisfies his hunger with crumbs. For ten points, name this land visited by Gulliver after Lilliputia, whose inhabitants HUGE.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 439
answer: {Bronte} Family

One author with this surname wrote about the Robinsons in And the Weary are at Rest and of Alexander Percy in Real Life in Verdopolis, a tale set in Angria. One poem by another author with this surname notes “The earth that wakes one human heart to feeling can centre both heaven and hell.” Huntingdon's wife eventually marries Gilbert Markham in a novel by a different author with this surname, while another novel by a different author with this surname juxtaposes Robert Moore's relationship involving Caroline with Louis's and Mrs. Keeldar's. In addition to The Tenant of Wildfell Hall and Shirley, another novel by an author with this surname was adapted by Jean Rhys into Wide Sargasso Sea, while another is set at Thrushcross Grange and centers on Catherine and Heathcliff. For ten points, give this surname of the authors of Jane Eyre and The Wuthering Heights

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 438
answer: Matthew {Arnold}

This author described the title phenomenon as “When we are frozen up within,” and “tis not to see the world,” in his poem “Growing Old.” Another poem shows the title figure "putting his sickle to the perilous grain in the hot cornfield of the Phrygian king," and says "Here came I often, often, in old days --," the title figure "and I." This man also wrote a poem that imagines the world, "to lie before us like a land of dreams, so various, so beautiful, so new," and that poem uses Sophocles, because "he heard it on the Aegean." This author also used the phrase “pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling,” in that work. For ten points, name this author of Thyrsis who noted a darkling plain, "where ignorant armies clash by night," in a poem that begins "The sea is calm to-night," Dover Beach.