####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PRELIMS ROUND 5.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 440
answer: Carson {McCullers}

Charles Bukowski wrote that "she died of alcoholism wrapped in a blanket on a deck chair on an ocean streamer" in a poem about her. This author that wrote about Mollie's ex-husband committing suicide and Philip Lovejoy in her The Square Root of Wonderful wrote about Judge Clane and J.T. Malone in one novel, and Morris Langdon and Weldon Penderton in another. In addition to writing Clock Without Hands and Reflections in a Golden Eye, this author that wrote about the cook Berenice Brown and Frankie Adams is better known for creating Jake Blout and Benedict Copeland in a work about the mute John Singer. For ten points, name this author of The Member of the Wedding and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, whom the QBwiki says lost her tuition money for Juliard.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 451
answer: All {My Sons}

One character in this play won't call his father an animal because "no animal kills his own" after asking "Do you have a country?" This work that sees the sawing of an apple tree after a storm also sees a horoscope read for one of the title characters. This drama that sees the opening of a letter forcing one character to commit suicide features Frank as the wife of Lydia Lubey, who is her second choice over the jailed Steve. Jim and Sue Bayliss live next to the central family whose matriarch Kate believes Larry will come home one day. Chris learns from George's sister Ann Deever the truth surrounding Joe Keller's manufacture of faulty airplane cylinder heads, in for ten points, what Arthur Miller drama?

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: Seamus {Heaney}

This author imagined "long swords rusting...in the belly of stone ships" and "walking round and round in a space, utterly empty" in 8 sonnets dedicated to his mother. In addition to "North" and "Clearances," which appear in The Haw Lantern, this author that wrote "Into your virtual city I'll have passed Unregistered by scans, screens, hidden eyes" also showed "Options, obstacles, dug heels, and distance, Here and there and now and then, a stance." "Between my finger and my thumb, The squat pen rests; as snug as a gun," is a line from this author's poem "Digging." For ten points, name this poet of District and Circle and Death of a Naturalist, who is better known for translating Beowulf.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Isak {Dinesen} or Karen {Blixen}

This author wrote about a court painter who seeks to ruin the image of the titular subject by messing up his depiction of her in a story centering on Cazotte in the novel Ehrengard. This author wrote about the wealthy Jew Marcus Cocoza assisting an opera singer who lost her voice in a theatre fire, Pellegrine Leoni, in a short story collection whose first story sees four people trapped in a farmhouse marrying each other after Calypso and Hamilcar tell each other tales. This author also wrote about a woman haunted by a monkey's spirit planning for the assault of Athena Hopballehus. In addition to "The Dreamers" and "The Deluge at Norderney," both in  7 Gothic Tales, this author described Emmanuelson getting a loan from Denys Finch-Hatton's friend before selling a coffee plantation in Kenya. For ten points, name this author of Out of Africa.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: The {Three Musketeers}

One sequel to this novel sees the protagonists escaping from prison by passing messages through tennis balls. This novel features a Protestant guard who says "God has willed it so" after executing an escape plan successfully. In addition to John Felton, one character in this novel impersonates a lover when writing letters to arrange liaisons in the dark, in a plan involving the maid Kitty. One of the protagonists married a woman who stole a gold communion plate before running away from a nunnery, and that woman has a fleur-de-lis on her back. This novel that begins with a man bragging about his horse to Milady's companion sees Monseur de Treville unable to view Dartagnan's letter of reference. For ten points, identify this novel featuring Aramis, one of the title figures in a work written by Alexandre Dumas.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 449
answer: {Natty Bumpo} accept either name (accept {Hawkeye} or {Trapper} or {Leatherstocking}) before they are mentioned, take {Pathfinder}, {Deerslayer}, Do not take Last of the Mohicans, or Leatherstocker, take it if they add "the" to any names.

While in his 80's, this character travels with a man who likes to give things Latin names, Oled Batius. Another character traveling with him is given the choice to hang himself or starve to death, Abiram White. This man is convicted for resisting a search warrant, after Tom Hutter is revealed to be a pirate to his daughters Judith and Hetty. One of this man's loves is loved by Lieutenant Davy Muir, who implicates another of this character's friends for spying for the French, Jasper Westerns. This man that kills Lynx has a companion whose wife was abducted by Briarthorn of the Hurons. For ten points, identify this killer of Colonel Munro's attacker, Magua, who appears in The Pathfinder and The Last of the Mohicans, created by Fennimore Cooper.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Miguel Angel {Asturias}

This author that wrote about Tazol receiving Yumi's wife when he lusts after the title black and white woman with supernatural powers also showed a derailed train causing Yumi to return to Mauro once he has consulted the title shaman in his works Mulata and Solana. This author that wrote about George Maker Thompson collaborating with the Lucero family to take over the United Fruit Company in The Green Pope put that work with The Eyes of the Interred and The Strong Wind in his Banana Trilogy. The parents of Miguelito appear in this author's novel that sees the death of General Canales and Camilla because of Miguel cara de Angel. For ten points, name this 1967 winner of the Nobel Prize that translated the Popol Vuh who wrote El Senior Presidente and is probably the best known Guatemalan author.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: {Billiards} at {Half Past Nine}

One character in this novel complains about "foolish Uhlans" and recalls shouting "Frenchy dead! Englishman Dead! Rooshian Dead!" Another character is associated with Wakiera in this novel that sees the protagonist imagining the deadly nature of war labeled as “The act of God.” This book features a near-fatal assassination attempt involving a case of mistaken identity of Ben Wackes, and the protagonist hires Leonore to clean his office regularly. One character eats breakfast everyday at the Cafe Kroner and marries Kilb, and the protagonist relates the death of his wife Edith to Hugo the busboy in this novel that sees St. Anthony's Abbey destroyed because of "buffaloes" who collaborated with the Nazis. For ten points, identify this novel focusing on the architect Robert Faehmel, who likes to shoot pool everyday at a particular time, by Heinrich Boll.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 448
answer: {Rubaiyat} of Omar Khayyam (accept reasonable {pronunciations})

One part of this work contends "One thing is certain and rest is lies The Flower that once blooms forever dies." It also advises "When the angel of the darker drink …offering his Cup ... fourth to your lips to quaff - you shall not drink." This work begins with images of "Stars before him from the Field of Night … The Sultan's Turret with a Shaft of Night," and its narrator notes “Ah, Wilderness” in this poem that shows “Earth could not answer, nor the seas mourn.” A Flask of Whine, a Loaf of Bread, and a Book of Verses underneath the Bough are observed in the beginning of this set of poems titled after a word for “quatrain.” For ten points, identify this medieval Iranian poetic work written by Omar Khayam.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 443
answer: {When Lilacs} Last in the {Door}-{yard Bloom'd}

This poem's narrator saw "debris of all the dead soldiers of the war," "white skeletons of young men," and "battle-corpses, myriads of them." He also asks "what shall I hang on the chamber walls?" Its sixteenth section features "glad serenades / dances for thee I propose, saluting thee." That section is a Death Carol of this poem whose narrator also addresses the "western orb, sailing the heaven," even though it has been "a month since [they] walk'd." Also featuring a "star, my departing comrade, [that] holds and detains me," it uses a solitary thrush that "sings by himself a song." For ten points, identify this poem whose second line is "And the great star early droop'd in the western sky in the night," an unrhymed elegy for Abraham Lincoln, written by Walt Whitman.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Harold Athol Lanigan {Fugard}

This descriptor of Willie Seopolo that wrote about Andre Huguenet performing Oedipus Rex pictured a horse being pulled up from a well in Dimetos also wrote the work Playland. Johnie cares for his railway worker father in his Hello and Goodbye, and he wrote of Vicky and Lionel in Victory, which is similar in setting to his Valley Song. This author that wrote about Marius Buleveld and Helen Martins depicted Styles giving a long monologue in his plays The Road to Mecca and Sizwe Banzi is Dead. This author of Boesman and Lena that wrote about Morris and Zachariah showed Sam and Willy in a play about the title character Hatty. For ten points, name this author of Blood Knot and Master Harold...and the Boys.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 443
answer: Mikhail {Bulgakov} (Accept {Black Snow} early)

Ivan Vasilievich and Aristarkh Platonivich engage in a rivalry while Xavier Ilchin praises Maxudov's work in one of this author's novels. Julia Reiss and the bumpkin Larosik stay with the Turbin family in this author's novel about Pavel Skoropadsky. In addition to writing Black Snow and White Guard, this man described a scientist increasing the size of reptiles instead of the population of chickens in his The Fatal Eggs. This author that wrote about Philip Philopvich Preobrazhensky making Sharik a human in the work Heart of a Dog created a character that uses Azazello's cream in a novel that features a giant cat named Behemoth. In that novel, Berlioz is beheaded by a streetcar shortly after Satan arrives in Moscow. For ten points, name this author of The Master and Margarita.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 450
answer: {Gore Vidal}

This author that imagined St. Paul trying to assemble a Holy Rolodex in the novel Live From Golgotha wrote about Rosemary Kantor in the work Duluth. A triple agent working for the Bureau of Narcotics and women bragging about their cancer operations are reasons why Teddy Ottinger's world comes to an end in this author's Kalki. This author of Decline and Fall of the American Empire wrote about the Histories of Herodotus by having Democritus told the truth from the grandson of Zoroaster, Cyrus Spitama. Letitia van Allen and Buck Loner appear in a novel by this author whose title character gets into a car accident, then sprouts a beard before switching sexes. For ten points, name this novelist of Creation and Myra Breckenridge.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 455
answer: {Slaughterhouse} - 5, or the {Children's Crusade}: A {Duty Dance} With {Death}

This novel features a character that warns about letting someone else answer the door if the doorbell rings, and that character can kill anyone for $1000 plus traveling expenses. The author notes that “There is nothing intelligent to say about a massacre” in this book whose protagonist has a dream involving giraffes when put into a sleep after watching a performance of Cinderella. The protagonist's wife dies of carbon monoxide poisoning after he survives a plane crash in this work where Paul Lazarro tries to get revenge for Roland Weary. Edgar Derby is killed for taking a teapot and Montana Wildhack kidnapped by plunger shaped aliens in this book that features Tralfamadorians and the fire-bombing of Dresden. For ten points, Billy Pilgrim is the protagonist of what Kurt Vonnegut novel?

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 444
answer: Luigi Pirandello

This author of Renanian Elegies and Playful Evil depicted the veil seeking Ersilia in the work Clothing the Naked. Leone challenges a group of men to a duel at his wife's room when he interrupted Guido and Silia lovemaking in this author's The Rules of the Game. This author also wrote about Giorgio Salvi committing suicide in a work where Diego Cinci and Doro Palegar engage each other in a duel. A fictional performance of Trovatore, wherein the audience director and actors are part of the performance is the focus of one of his plays. In addition to writing Tonight We Improvise and Each in his Own Way, a man thinks he is a Holy Roman Emperor in his Henry IV. This author  is better known for having The Producer rehearse Mixing it Up in a drama featuring The Stepdaughter, The Mother, et al. For ten points, name this author of Six Characters in Search of an Author.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 453
answer: Harold {Pinter}

This author that wrote about Bel's wife Andy referring to death as the "new horizon" in Moonlight brought the town of Combray to the stage in an adaptation of Proust's In Search of Lost Time. This author imagined Riley getting punched after the protagonist is visited by Sands in his play that sees Rose going blind. Another of this author's plays sees the title occupation being offered to Davies by Aston, even over Nick's objections. This author of The Room created a note that reads "Soup of the Day. Liver and Onions. Jam Tart," that is read by a character who debates about “lighting the gas” and "lighting the kettle" in a play about Ben and Gus. For ten points name this author of The Caretaker who created two hitmen in his The Dumbwaiter.

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: Rudyard {Kipling}

This author wrote a short story about the title character who tries to negotiate for a first-class rail ticket eventually being arrested, Lieutenant Golightly. A picture of Bessie is what the near-blind Dick Heldar wants in a novel by this author that wrote about "We're Here" impressing a kid who fell off a cruise ship into their crew. In addition to writing The Light That Failed and writing about Harvey in Captains Courageous, Peachey Carnahan and Daniel Dravot become cargo cult figures in a story about Kafiristan by this author that also created an orphan that is in The Great Game after meeting a Tibetan monk while shuttling letters from Lahore. For ten points, identify this author of "The Man Who Would Be King" and "Kim."

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: {She Stoops} to {Conquer}

This play that mentions the stage direction "Exeunt Servants, running about as if frightened, different ways" features a chase through “feather-bed lane" and "up and down hill." Based off of incidents involving Cornelius Kelly as written by Mrs. Hodson, David Garrick wrote the prologue to this play that features Mr. Woodward weeping.  One character is given a letter about some fresh horses whose contents are altered to gambling instead, while Sir Charles's son woos what he thinks is a barmaid, in what might be Three Pigeons Bar. Marlow and Kate desire to marry in this play set at Mrs. Hardcastle's home. Constance Neville loves Hastings in, for ten points, what play featuring Tony Lumpkin written by Oliver Goldsmith?

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 443
answer: {Daffodils}

A speaker praises these objects by saying "We thought they were a windfall," and describing how "your daughter came with her armfuls, eager and happy." Another poem about these entities says they are fleeting "like the summer's rain or as the pearls of morning's dew," and describes how we weep because they "haste away so soon." Those poems are by Ted Hughes and Robert Herrick respectively. Another poem about these entities notes how "they flash upon that inward eye, which is the bliss of solitude," and even though "the waves beside them danced, but they outdid the sparkling waves in glee." These objects are "continuous as the stars that shine...they stretched in a never ending line." For ten points, while wandering lonely as a cloud, William Wordsworth observed what flower?

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: {Persian} Language or {Parsi} (Prompt on {Iranian because} it is {actually} a {class} of {languages})

Besides Hindavi, this is the language used by a man to describe the jizya in the second sphere of heaven, as well as the language of another man used to write the lines “Love demands a mystic silence” and “I am the merchant and the pearl at once.” The Book of Qabus was a mirror for princes written in this language used to describe the journey through Tawheed and Hayrat, in order for thirty birds to find Simorgh in a poem written by Farid ud-Din Attar. Another work in this language sees Keymars become the first man, and Hushang discovering fire during the mythical age. That work in this language proceeds to tell of the heroic and historical ages. For ten points, name this language used to write the Shahnameh by Ferdousi and the Zend Avesta.