####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PRELIMS ROUND 4.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 442
answer: {Four Quartets}

This cycle of poems contends that "here or there does not matter,” “old men ought to be explorers," after concluding "to arrive at what you do not know," travel by the way of ignorance. Another part of this work that asks to “pray for those who … ended their voyage in sand” wonders if the future is a faded song, a royal rose, or a lavender spray. This work also wonders what Krishna meant, and begins by noting "if all time is eternally present, All time is unredeemable." Stating that "the fire and rose are one," Its author said "In my end is my beginning," laying the ground for him to be buried in East Coker. For ten points, identify this literary work whose individual parts represent the classical elements, such as Burnt Norton and Little Gidding, a tetrad of poems by T.S. Eliot.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 440
answer: {Pedro Calderon} De La {Barca} (prompt on "De La {Barca}")

This author depicted Catherine of Aragon's process of divorce in The Schism of England, and his early works include Love, Honour and Power. In one play, Taste and Smell are turned into beasts, leaving their captain to receive flowers soaked in holy blood once he learns from Understanding and repents to Penance. In another, Justina resists St. Crispian who acquires black magic in a Faustian fashion. In addition to The Sorceries of Sin and The Wonder-Working Magician, the father of Juan avenges his daughter's rape by killing Don Alvaro as the title leader in another of this author's works. Another play is about a prince who grew up imprisoned in the woods, but is unsure of the reality of being Basilio's son after receiving the title warning. For ten points, The Mayor of Zalamea and Life is a Dream, were written by what Golden Age Playwright, who isn't Lope de Vega?

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 436
answer: Philip Kindred {Dick}

This author of the poem "On a Cat Which Fell Three Stories and Survived" delivered a speech that posited ideas are only made alive by The Author in "If You Find This World Bad, You Should See Some of the Others." This author of the speech “How to Build a Universe that Doesn't Fall Apart Two Days Later” showed an alternate reality's alternate reality by making Rexford Tugwell President of the U.S. in The Grasshopper Lies Heavy, which was written by Hawthorne Abendsen. That fictional book appears in this author's work where Rudolf Wegener tries to pass information to Tagomi about a German's plans to nuke Japan, whose territory now includes everything left of the Rocky Mountains of the U.S. For ten points name this author of The Man in the High Castle who wrote of Agent Fred who is Bob Arctor on Substance D in A Scanner Darkly.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 451
answer: {Edna} Pontellier

This person that distinguishes from the conforming outer existence and the questioning inner listens to Tristan and Isolde and Chopin Impromptu. This character that dies when a "hum of bees and musky odor of pinks" fills the air is told a tale about semi-celestials visiting mortals. Disappointed about not eating burnt fish, this woman's toddies-drinking father only appears to purchase a wedding gift for Janet. She is acquainted with Mademoiselle Reisz and Adele Ratignole. This character that felt death smiting her soul after learning to swim has a husband that consults Dr. Mandelet because of her affair with Robert Lebrun. This mother of Etienne and Raoule is also the husband of Leonce, who drowns at the end of the novella she appears in. For ten points name this protagonist of Kate Chopin's The Awakening.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: Decameron

At one point, a woman is so displeased with a knight's storytelling that she asks him to stop escorting her, and this book sees Solomon ordering a man to the Bridge of Geese. This work depicts a man showing people coal instead of a feather from the Archangel Gabriel and three jokesters pulling down the breeches of a judge. It closes with Gualtieri marrying Griselda and making her a Marchioness as the Marquis of Saluzzo, and it begins with a wicked man praised as a saint because he lies about his last rites in Ciappelletto. At other points, Neifile dictates the theme of painful loss and recompense, while the idea of "when lovers must endure tragedy," is a theme chosen by Fiametta. For ten points, identify this collection of stories told during the Plague, 100 tales by Giovanni Boccacio.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 439
answer: {Twenty Love} Poems and A {Song} of {Despair} or {Veinte poemas} de {amor} y {una canción desesperada}

One poem in this collection is named for a creature that is the final rose in the author's barren land and features the phrase "Ah, you who are silent!" Another poem says "I want to do to you what spring does with the cherry trees," and asks "Let me spread you out among garlands." In addition to "White Bee," and "Every Day You Play," another part of this work says "A bough of fruit falls from the sun on your dark garment," and begins with the title action being done with a "mortal flame." Its last section speaks of a "cemetery of kisses,” and asserts “there is still fire in your tombs" before discussing "the hour of departure." For ten points, name this work that contains "The Light Wraps You," and "Tonight I can Write," 21 poems by Pablo Neruda.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: Virginia {Woolf}

This author explored an interaction between G.F. Watts and Alfred Tennyson in a play set on the Isle of Wight, Freshwater. A biography of Richard Alardyce being produced by Katherine Hillberry and a creature owned by the Mitford family then the Brownings are two elements of her novels Night and Day and Flush. This author wrote about Rachel Vinrace and Lucy Swithin in the novels The Voyage Out and Between the Acts in addition to writing about Macalester accompanying James, Camilla, and Mrs. Ramsay to the title structure on the Isle of Skye. In another story, the title phenomena serve as a backdrop for the soliloquies of Louis, Neville, and Bernard. For ten points name this author of To the Lighthouse and The Waves.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: {Middlemarch}: A Study of Provincial Life

One character in this novel is sent to an auction where characters like Mr. Thesinger and Mr. Horrick attend in order to bid on Supper at Emmaus. Another character's final lines in this novel are "I shall be in the yew walk tree for the next half-hour" before discovered on a bench after he dies. Another character is plagued with corruption from the Raffles Scandal, and he loses his money after marrying Rosemond.  Its other characters include a man who tries to write the Key to All Mythologies and Bulstrode. Casuabon forbids the protagonist from marrying Will Ladislaw, unless she relinquishes her share of his will in this novel centering on Dorothea Brooke. For ten points, name this study of provincial life by George Eliot.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: {troubadours} (prompt on {chansonniers} before {certamen}, accept {troubaritz} until {Marcabru... anyone who buzzes} in with {poet needs} to be {slapped}, and not {prompted})

The ensenhamen that belonged to members of this occupation is an analogue to the genre mirror of princes. The women who were part of it, such as Tibors, were always of high birth. Certamina describe three of them debating, while the Latin word malus gives its name to a form that describes them complaining about women. One member that fits this group developed the style known as clus and was Marcabru. Notes on their work are razos while information on their lives comes from vidas. Arnaut Daniel was one that created the form sestina, and these peoples were usually associated with the losing side of the Albigensian Crusade, and primarily wrote in Occitan. For ten points identify this profession that used Languedoc, usually assisted by jongleurs and contrasted with trouveres.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 449
answer: The {Unbearable Lightness} of {Being}

At one point, this book instructs the reader to "to close your eyes" if you are seeking infinity, and this work also asks whether God has intestines in addition to describing the son of Joseph Stalin electrocuting himself. The protagonist is asked to absolve himself from the claim of writing a newspaper article on Oedipus before becoming a window washer. In this work that sees a dog develop a cancer on his leg, one character dies while marching against Cambodia in Thailand, while another is offered a choice to immigrate to Switzerland to continue his medicinal practice before running a dairy farm. For ten points identify this novel that features a doggie named Karenin that juxtaposes Franz and Sabina with the Soviet-denouncing Tomas and Tereza, a work of Milan Kundera.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 442
answer: Alan Stewart {Paton}

In one of his novels, Robert Mansfield is forced to move to Australia, a Proud White Christian Woman writes of interracial sex in letters to politicians, and an Indian named Prim is arrested for using a whites-only library. In another, Mr. Smith murders a servant after impregnating her, and a character collects stamps with Kappie. That novel by this author is narrated by Sophie, a relative of Pieter van Vlaanderen.  In addition to Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful, and Too Late the Phalarope, the owner of "High Place," James, has a slain son in a novel by this author that sees Mr. Carmichael defending the perpetrator after Theophilus gives a letter to Stephen, who leaves Ixopo for Johannesburg. For ten points, name this author that wrote about Absalom Kumalo in Cry the Beloved Country.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 453
answer: Katherine {Mansfield} Murry (either way)

This author that wrote about Ian French impressing a woman because he can pick up an egg described the title English teacher viewing the world as a stage in addition to hearing her fur cry. In addition to “Feuille d'Album,” and “Miss Brill, this author that described a man buying a melon and a pineapple for his children at a London train station in a story in which his wife reads a love letter to Dennis, Moira and Bill. In addition to writing Marriage a la Mode she also created a character who likes canna lilies in a story whose title event is almost compromised, leading Jose trying to rebuke Laura Sheridan. In another story, Eddie Warren attends a dinner party where Pearl Fulton has an affair with Harry Young. For ten points, identify this author of The Garden Party and Bliss, a noted New Zealander.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: Saul {Bellow} or {really} Saul {Bello} (but {let's} also {take Solomon Bellows})

This author about Kirby Allbee accosting magazine editor Asa Leventhal in his novel The Victim. This author whose first novel is in a diary form of Ava's husband Joseph waiting to go off to war also showed a man who experiences fantasmo imperium, Albert Corde. Another of his novels sees the title character spending an evening with Clara Spohr, using explosives against a bunch of frogs in a reservoir, and wrestling against Itelo.  This author of Dangling Man and The Dean's December, wrote a novel whose first paragraph quotes Heraclitus about character being fate before the protagonist goes off to Mexico and raising an iguana. For ten points, name this Chicago author that created a man who married Stella, Augie March.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 443
answer: Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills {Wilde}

The title creature of one his stories is unable to find a red flower, so it seeps its blood in a white rose by pricking himself, while another involves a Syrian captain falling in love with an enchanted mermaid. In addition to writing a tale about a nightingale, he wrote a play about the daughter of Peter Sabouroff who joins a terrorist group to kill Ivan the Czar, as well as another drama about Gerald Arbuthnot threatening to make Illingworth marry his mother for messing with his kid. In addition to Vera, or the Nihilists, and A Woman of No Importance, Aubrey Beardsley illustrated his play about a woman who desires Jokanaan's head. In addition to writing Salome, this man created the character of Mrs. Erlynne in Lady Windemere's Fan. For ten points, what author created Jack Worthing in The Importance of Being Earnest?

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 445
answer: The {Bell Jar}

The protagonist considers reading Finnegans' Wake over the summer, discusses a play with Cal before proceeding to talk about the many uses and types of shotguns. The protagonist recalls an article entitled "In Defense of Chastity" after a U.N. interpreter seduces her. Before sharing a passionate moment with a Harvard professor from Irwin, this work's protagonist had talked about the death of the Rosenbergs with Gilda while working at Ladies Day before undergoing electrotherapy on Dr. Gordon's wishes. This novel sees the main character visit Dr. Nolan in an institution because of Philomela Guinea. It also sees the protagonist swallow a bunch of pills and swim out to sea to try to commit suicide. For ten points, identify this novel about Esther Greenwood many attempts to suicide, by Sylvia Plath.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 436
answer: {E}({dward}) {M}({organ}) {Forster}

This man that wrote of Mildred's lover living in Ancient Greece in Albergo Empedocle and of Vithobai converting his tribe to Christianity at the behest of Paul Pinmay put those stories in The Life to Come. One of this novelist's characters is the author of "Pan Pipes," who is married to Agnes Pembroke. In addition to writing about Stephen Wonham and Rickie Elliot, one of his novels is about Gino Carella's kidnapped baby after Lilia Herriton dies. In addition to The Longest Journey and Where Angels Fear to Tread, this author that chose Mau as a setting for the third part of a novel called "The Temple,” deliberately had Cyril Fielding not present at the Marabar Caves, giving way for Adela Quested to claim she was raped by Dr. Aziz in another novel. For ten points, name this author of A Passage to India.

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 443
answer: Eugene {O'Neill}

One of this author's plays features a man trying to convert Ada to worship the title machines in a hydroelectric dam before they electrocute Reuben Light, while another play begins with a man bragging about loving a New Guinea cannibal soaked in cocoanut oil. This author also wrote a drama that begins with a conversation Mickey Maloy and Jamie Cregan and centers on Cornelius “Con” Melody. In addition to Dynamo, Bound East For Cardiff, and A Touch of the Poet, this dramatist described a Pullman porter clashing with Henry Smithers when he becomes ruler of an island in the Caribbean. Another drama sees a man told to jump off the fire exit, Don Parrit, from the Hotel above where Theodore Hickey is awaited. For ten points, name this playwright of The Emperor Jones and The Iceman Cometh, who also wrote about the Tyrone Family in Long Day's Journey Into Night.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: The {Dead}

One character referenced in this story is dressed in a Man-o-war suit and nurses to health a woman in Monkstown, while another character says "I have a cow to pluck with you" after she dances with the protagonist that imagines his wife with a blue felt hat and bronze hair in a painting called "Distant Music." "The Lass of Aughrim," is sung by Bartell D'arcy in this story that sees a debate on quoting Robert Browning. The protagonist's wife imagines being visited by a sick lover that dies while she is in a convent in Galway in this work set at the Morkan Sisters' Annual Dance on the Epiphany. Ending with a contemplation about Michael Fury, for ten points, identify this short story about Gretta Conroy and Gabriel, the final entry in James Joyce's Dubliners.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: The Last {Temptation} of {Christ}

This novel that sees one character happy to hear thirty-three birds singing also features a man arguing that the bull in front of him is a manifestation of the title character's father. The author argued that when the title character dies, death is vanquished forever. One character in this work asserts that truth or falseness doesn't matter, only that the world is saved, while the protagonist of this novel loves a shepherd named Philip because he had no sheep. Before being offered a hedonistic life by a black guardian angel, the protagonist undergoes flagellation and builds crosses for crucifixion to send messages to his divine father he doesn't want to fulfill his destiny at the start of this work. For ten points, identify this novel where Judas calls Jesus a traitor to humanity, by Nikos Kazantzakis.

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: Matsuo {Basho}

On his deathbed, this man imagined that his dream wandered over a field of dry grass after falling sick from a journey. One of this author's characters says “butterflies in a burweed,” while another pictures a monument to a highwayman and a pine sundered by wind. Because the first cold showers pour, this author that wrote about a sack of charcoal also depicted a monkey desiring a coat made of straw. This man that described how enjoyable it was to view a mountain not in foggy rain detailed how his mind points to his native place after ten autumns in a work about a weather - exposed skeleton. His travelogues include Records of a Travel Worn Satche,l and he described the sound of a frog jumping into a pond. For ten points, name this author of The Narrow Road to the Deep North that who is best known for his haiku.