####
tournament: Mahfouz Memorial Lit
round: PRELIMS ROUND 2.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 1
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 440
answer: Karel {Capek}

One of this author's novels ends with the heart of Juraj being buried forever, while another of his novels sees a nun, a clairvoyant, and a doctor speculating on the life Mr. X, a man who might have been George Kettelring before falling from the sky. In addition to Hordubal and Meteor, this author wrote some Tales from Two Pockets and about a machine causing factory owners to become philanthropists because people like Bondy buy the Karburetor in his The Absolute at Large. In another play, Captain van Toch discovers the title creatures exploited for pearl farming. This author also had Primus defy Alquist in his play that sees Dr. Hallemeier informing Helena Glory that the title entities are incapable of love. For ten points, name this Czech author who created Harry Domin in R.U.R.

----
num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 444
answer: Fyodor MIkhailovich {Dostoyevsky}

This man wrote of Nellie trying to give the Prince's money to Ivan, and a story about Makar's son trying to become a Rothschild. In addition to The Insulted and the Humiliated and The Raw Youth, he wrote of Blanche trying to obtain the winnings of the Polina's Stepfather, a General that visits Roulettenburg. This author wrote of a man who attributes "excessive consciousness" to many intellectuals, who also envies two men fighting at a bar in a section called "On the Occation of West Snow." Jesus is told humans are incapable of bearing freedom by the Grand Inquisitor, in Ivan's story to Alyosha in one of his novels. For ten points name this author whose works include The Gambler, Notes From the Underground, and The Brothers Karamazov.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 453
answer: Yukio {Mishima}

One of his plays is about a sardine seller loving the princess of a kingdom, while another is about a man who commits suicide in a pond because a damask drum produces no noise. He wrote of the lack of divinity the title figures have purposelessly fought for in Voices of the Heroic Dead. He also wrote of an author that paid a homosexual to marry women and bring them grief, and of Yuken's wife caring for her garden and not the party. Aside from Forbidden Colors and After the Banquet, this man described Father Dosen supplying Mizoguchi with funds for college, and another work about a disappointed narrator learning Joan of Arc is female. For ten points, name the author of Temple of Golden Pavilion and Confessions of a Mask.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: Manuel {Puig}

This author wrote of a patient and a doctor at a clinic in which both are female, nameless and abusive to each other in a play that features da Falla's "Night in the Garden of Spain," and of two female octogenarians discussing having affairs with their neighbors in a work about Nidia and Luci. Ramirez and Larry are characters that discuss their regrets in another novel of his. In addition to Tropical Night Falling, and Eternal Curse on the Reader of These Pages, he described a man who fails at being a mason and electrician, Maria de Gloria's partner, Josemar. Another novel is about a movie and politics discussion set in jail between Molina and Valentin. For ten points name this author of Blood of Requited Love, and Kiss of the Spider Woman.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 440
answer: Erich Marie {Remarque}

This author that described two paintings in the Metropolitan being viewed by Natasha's lover Robert Ross also wrote of living at Mallern in a novel originally titled God's Image. In addition to Shadows in Paradise and Spark of Life, he wrote of a tombstone seller loving the schizophrenic Isabella in his novel about Ludwig Bodmer. Another of this man's works features a man who does not write to his parents about his furloughs loving Elizabeth after Ernst Graeber's parents die. Beyond The Black Obelisk and A Time to Love and A Time to Die, this author created a recruit returning home to a cancerous mother whose first section seeing him wondering about Kemmerich's boots. For ten points, name this author who created Paul Baumner in All Quiet on the Western Front.

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 448
answer: {Federal Republic} of {Nigeria} (If someone says "Republic of {Nigeria}," don't award them points for attempting to show off, but failing miserably.)

One author from this country wrote a memoir about clashes for oil titled On a Darkling Plain and an anti-war novel whose narrator wanted to be a "soza," a "rotten English" word. Another author wrote of Monica being killed during the Egungun and of the seller of dreams, Ajegunla Joe, in his Incidents at the Shrine. That author wrote of a man who is hungrier the more he eats and of Azaro, in The Famished Road. Another author from here wrote of schoolboys reciting "Arithmetic Times," in a play about Lakunle and Sidi. For ten points, identify this home of The Lion and the Jewel writer, Wole Soyinka, and an author who called Josef Conrad a "Bloody Racist,", the author of No Longer at Ease that features Obi Okonkwo, created by Chinua Achebe.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: {Uncle Vanya} or {Dyadya Vanya}

One character in this play laments that if he had a normal life, he could have been a Schopenhauer or a Dostoyevsky. That character spreads his pain to another asking "What curst philosophy lies in your way?" It ends with a character arguing "In your life you haven't known what joy is...but wait we shall rest." A doctor is upset about a railroad switchman dying from typhus in this play, whose first act sees him complaining about his senility. Marina offers "lime-flower tea" to soothe nerves to one character, while another has a face that looks like waffles and is called Telegin. The suggestion of selling the estate for a villa in Finland upsets Vera's brother, so much that he tries to kill Yelena's husband Serebriakov. For ten points, Voitsky is an avuncular figure in what Chekov play?

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 442
answer: John dos {Passos}

This author was accused of portraying Americans as "Time-reading, Republican Voters" in a book about Jay Pignatelli. Another work sees one of the title characters meeting the sympathizer Genevieve and a man chucking two grenades at his hated sergeant. The other title character in that novel by this author is deserted by Mabe and promoted to corporal. Beyond Chosen Country and Three Soldiers, another of his works sees Bud Korpening committing suicide, as well as John Oglethorpe marrying Ellen Thatcher. Another novel sees Lloyd Wright designing buildings, Margo Dowling supporting communists and Charlie Anderson crashing cars. For ten points, name the author of Manhattan Transfer and The Big Money, the latter of which forms the U.S.A. Trilogy.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: The Life and Opinions of {Tristram Shandy}

The protagonist of this novel talks about the nuns of Strasburg getting crazy mad at Diego who has a long nose. One character in it is the daughter of an innkeeper, Janatone, who is desired by the protagonist before he dubs an ass "Honesty" when he arrived in Paris after having initially beginning in Calais. This work that tells about Hawken Slawkenbergius's tale sees Didius is a pastor who is asked about re-Christening in this novel that features a protagonist born with Susannah present after his mother complains about Dr. Slop. A woman in it is Widow Wadman, who tries to marry Walter, and another character in this novel hates gravity. For ten points, name this novel that features Parson Yorick and discusses the life and the opinions of the title character, by Laurence Sterne.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 438
answer: Anatole {France} or Anatole {Thibault}

The occultist Hercule dies in a fire before a silver plate from Mosaide causes Jael to desert Jacque Menetrier in this author's novel about Reine Pedauque. One novel by this author features Sophar as a Jewish banker supplying munitions to the title creatures that receive the assistance of the bomb maker Istar. In that novel, Maurice d'Spervau advises Arcade. In another novel, Father Longuemare is killed with Maurice Brotteaux at the behest of Elodie Blaise's lover, Evariste Gamelin. In addition to Revolt of the Angels and The Gods are Athirst, he wrote another work whose characters include a monk going to hell, Marbodius, and Greatank, a resident of Alca who establishes a government for one of the title creatures. For ten points, name this author of Penguin Island who derived his pseudonym from the name of his home country.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 450
answer: Emily Dickinson

This author contends that a pedantic sunshine in a satin vest is equivalent to portraits functioning as daily faces. Another work contends that Death is a dialogue between spirit and dust, while another pictures heaven as a small town lit with a ruby, stiller than the fields at the full dew. Other ideas include the identity condemning the soul and another work describes a "forbidden ear / the distant strains of triumph / break, agonized and clear." This author that described the soul as something that closes the valves of attention like stone after she selects her own society also tasted a liquor never brewed. For ten points, name this Amherst native who wrote "Because I could Not Stop for Death."

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: The {Chambered Nautilus}

It calls the past “low-vaulted,” and uses the phrase “silent toil” in addition to presenting an image of the "sunless crypt un-sealed.” The speaker imagines a voice from "deep caves of thought," urging for "new temples, more nobler than the last, / shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast." It also imagines "the venturous bark that flings / on the sweet summer wind its purple wings," and "cold sea-maids ris[ing] to sun their streaming hair," in gulfs, enchanted. The title object has "webs of living gauze," "and once it "built up its idle door," it "knew the old no more." It imagines a note more clear than one from the wreathed horn of Triton and asks "Build thee more stately mansions." For ten points, poets feigning "the ship of pearl," appears in what Oliver Holmes poem?

----
num: 13
category: Fine Arts
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 486
answer: {Illustrations of} Dante's {Inferno} (prompt on illustrations + Divine Comedy, accept equivalents)

One work of this type shows a horned figure holding a sword about to slay an infindel, while the third shows the moon reflected in the water before a descent. In addition to "The Mutilated Shade of Mahomet" and "The Darkening Sky of the First Night," another focuses on precipitation coming down on those who injure, while another shows bird women staring at two figures that approach a sylvan abode. In addition to "The Violent, Tortured in the Rain of Fire" and "Harpies in the Forest of Suicide," another shows Geryon giving two men a ride into the bolgias. The last shows Lucifer as the King of Hell, and the first shows the author before meeting Vergil. For ten points, name these Gustave Dore creations depicting the first part of the Divine Comedy.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: The {Pearl}

One character in this novella strips naked for extra stealthiness, while attacking two men looking for the central family. The baby in this story is made sick when given a gelatinous white capsule, but feels better when given ammonia. When the central family attempts to travel to the capital, they are advised to avoid the coast because trackers are attempting to catch them for money. Apollonia mourns the feigned death of the ones who own the title object, but then she and Juan Tomas provide quarter for them. Coyotito dies not because of the scorpion sting, but because he cries and is shot near La Paz, where the title object returns. For ten points, Juana and Kino fail to become rich after finding the title object in what Steinbeck work?

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 450
answer: Do Not {Go Gentle Into} That Good {Night}

This poem features men who learn too late and "grieved on its way." It describes "frail deeds" that possibly have danced "in a green bay," and words that have "forked no lightning." Another image is that of wild men that "caught and sang the sun in flight." It also compares "blind eyes," that "blaze like meteors," and the persona's father "on the sad height." It delineates images of "wise men at their end know[ing] dark is right," and asks to "curse, bless me now with your fierce tears, I pray." Saying, "old men should burn and rave at close of day," it features the refrain, "Rage, Rage, Against the Dying Light." For ten points, identify this villanelle written for the author's father after his eyesight was failing by Dylan Thomas.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 443
answer: {Titus Andronicus}

One character in this work argues that a raped woman should be slain because she cannot survive her shame, while the protagonist worries that sorrow "would usurp upon my watry eyes." Another character says he does not know Jupiter because "I never drank with him in all my life," shortly before being hanged. That character is a jester, and the daughter of the title character points at Ovid's Metamorphoses to use the tale of Philomela and Tereus to explain a missing tongue and two hands. Its first act begins with Aaron the Moor's lover being chosen as an empress, who eventually eats her two sons as baked meats. Tamora, Queen of the Goths, Saturninus, Bassianus, and the title figure square off in revenge in for ten points, what early Shakespeare play?

----
num: 17
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: {Sons} and {Lovers}

During an interview, one character in this novel fails to read a note in French while attempting to get a job that sells surgical appliances, the company of Thomas Jordan. One character hemorrhages every time Jerry enters her presence, and a different character is Louisa Lily Denys Weston that forgets about William after dying. Another character purchases Arthur out of the army, who then proceeds to marry Beatryce Wild. The protagonist frequents Willey Farm, and has feelings for Miriam and Baxter's wife, Clara Dawes. This novel ends with the protagonist choosing to live in memory of his mother, who had died of a morphine overdose. For ten points, identify this work about Gertrude and Paul Morel, written by D.H. Lawrence.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 450
answer: Thomas {Hardy}

This man wrote about a dog forgetting that a mistress was buried in a place where he will bury a bone in his "Ah, Are you Digging My Grave?" This author wrote about "All Nations striving strong to make red war yet redder," and how a man says "Instead of preaching forty year...I wish I had stuck to pipes and beer," in a poem where God says "It will be warmer when I blow the trumpet, (if indeed I ever do.)"  Another work sees "the ancient pulse of germ and birth," and how "strings of broken lyres … all mankind that haunted nigh had sought their household fires." That poem was written on the last day of the nineteeth century, and imagines “So Little cause for carolings,” and begins by noting “I leant upon a coppice gate.” For ten points, name this poet of “Channel Firing” and "The Darkling Thrush."

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 448
answer: The {Namesake}

Mrs. Lapidus is a principal in this work that shreds a form for a child who does not want to enter Kindergarten. The protagonist saw an article entitled "Second Baptisms," and his father is is limp in his right leg due to a train accident. Beginning with a description of mixing peanuts and rice krispies with peppers to prepare a snack from Calcutta, Gerald's and Lydia's rich lifestyles counters Maxine with Nikhil, who had his name legally changed because of the dissonance of his Indian past and his father's affinity with Akaky Akakievich, the protagonist of The Overcoat. Focusing on Ashima and Ashoke Ganguli, for ten points, name this novel featuring Gogol, written by Jhumpa Lahiri.

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 454
answer: All the {King's Men}

One character in this novel is a medium that sells a suicide note to the narrator, who left his first wife after seeing her more than a machine for love. While in New Mexico, he picks up a passenger with a facial twitch, causing him to use the phrase "Great Twitch" to describe the randomness of life. Mortimer Littlepaugh commits suicide in this novel because one character backs a dismissal of a case against the Southern Belle Fuel Company. Byram White is another character in this novel that is protected from Hugh Miller. Other characters include Tiny Dufy who reveals Anne is sleeping with the governor, and the protagonist's father Judge Irwin. For ten points, name this novel in which Adam Stanton kills Willie Stark, narrated by Jack Burden and written by Robert Penn Warren.