####
tournament: Thomas Jefferson Certamen
round: Round 1-3
year: 2008
####

num: 1
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 36
answer: A discus

Bonus: With what object did Perseus indeed kill his grandfather, many years later?

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: veritas

Bonus: What is the Latin word for the noun “truth”?

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 35
answer: Manumissio

Bonus: What did the Romans call the process of freeing a slave?

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 35
answer: Toga {pulla}

Bonus: What toga was used for mourning?

----
num: 5
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 39
answer: facilius

Bonus: What is the comparative of  facillimum?

----
num: 6
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: -1
seen: 35
answer: nolo→nolle, volo→velle

Bonus: Name the infinitives of  nolo and volo.

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: None
seen: 37
answer: Octavian, Antony, Lepidus

Bonus:  Who made up the second triumvirate?

----
num: 8
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: -1
seen: 35
answer: Puer lupo visus est/ videbatur

Bonus:  Now translate the whole sentence:

----
num: 9
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 37
answer: incarcerate

Bonus: What English word, meaning “to imprison”, is derived from the Latin word for

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: septima urbs

Bonus: Say in Latin, “the seventh city”

----
num: 11
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 37
answer: Caesarion

Bonus:  Who was her son by Julius Caesar?

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 37
answer: Laetius

Bonus: Complete the analogy:  laetus  is to  laetior as  laete is to ____.

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 35
answer: Tablinum

Bonus: What room in a Roman house was the father’s study?

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: -1
seen: 35
answer: requiescat in pace

Bonus: What does the abbreviation  R.I.P stand for in Latin?

----
num: 15
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 33
answer: Clytie

Bonus: This nymph turned into a sunflower when she was rejected by the sun god.

----
num: 16
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: Augustus

Bonus: Livy wrote during the reign of which emperor?

----
num: 17
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 36
answer: from Sea to Sea

Bonus: Translate the motto of Canada:  a mari usque ad mare

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 36
answer: viginti novem

Bonus:  Respondite Latine.    Quot dies sunt huic mensi?

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: Alesia

Bonus:  At which battle was he defeated?

----
num: 20
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 35
answer: Amphitrite

Bonus: This goddess was the leader of the Nereids.

----
num: 21
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 36
answer: Lars Porsenna

Bonus:  Who was the Etruscan king?

----
num: 22
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 38
answer: Seven years

Bonus: How long did Odysseus remain on Ogygia?

----
num: 23
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 35
answer: Perfect active

Bonus: What tense and voice of the verb did Caesar use when he said “Veni Vidi Vici?” .

----
num: 24
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: iaciens

Bonus: give the present active participle, “throwing”

----
num: 25
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: Agrippina the Younger

Bonus:  Who was Nero's overbearing mother?

----
num: 26
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 37
answer: Domus/ humus/ rus

Bonus: We know that cities, towns and small islands take the locative case.  Give two of the additional nouns which have a locative form:

----
num: 27
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: apodyterium

Bonus: What was the word for a changing room in a bath?

----
num: 28
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: cēdo means yield or move, and caedo means cut or kill

Bonus: Differentiate in meaning between  cēdo and  caedo.

----
num: 29
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 35
answer: Augustus

Bonus:  Who added the most territory to the Empire?

----
num: 30
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 34
answer: Augustus

Bonus: Which emperor instituted the  vigiles?

----
num: 31
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 38
answer: (either “quam illud certamen” or “illo certamine”)

Bonus: Now from that same sentence, translate “than that certamen.”

----
num: 32
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: None
seen: 29
answer: Pluperfect

Bonus: What tense of the subjunctive is used for the past contrary to fact constructions?

----
num: 33
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 27
answer: Marcus Aurelius

Bonus.  Which emperor of Rome, who reigned jointly with Verus, was a proponent of stoicism?

----
num: 34
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 28
answer: Subject of infinitive(indirect statement)

Bonus: What type of accusative is found in this sentence?  Puer dixit corpus sepultum esse.

----
num: 35
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 30
answer: I have a plan/advice.

Bonus: Give an idiomatic translation of the sentence from the toss-up.

----
num: 36
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 29
answer: Terpsichore

Bonus.  Who was the muse of dance?

----
num: 37
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 29
answer: laetius

Bonus: Complete the analogy:  laetus  is to  laetior as  laete is to ____.

----
num: 38
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 30
answer: noun and verb

Bonus: What two parts of speech is an infinitive?

----
num: 39
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 27
answer: Epigrams

Bonus:  What is Martial known for?

----
num: 40
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: gladii brevissimi sunt

Bonus: Say in Latin, “the swords are very short.”

----
num: 41
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 28
answer: (Placetne, libetne) tibi agere [vehiculum]?

Bonus: Translate into Latin: “Does driving please you?”

----
num: 42
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 27
answer: Mount Parnassus

Bonus.  The oracle was located on the slopes of what mountain?

----
num: 43
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 30
answer: Pleiades

Bonus:  To what group of the daughters of Atlas did Maia, mother of Hermes, belong?

----
num: 44
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 25
answer: Tarquinius Superbus

Bonus.  To whom did she give the Sybilline books?

----
num: 45
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 25
answer: Alea iacta est

Bonus: Responde Latine: Quid dixit Caesar, cum Rubiconem transisset?

----
num: 46
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 30
answer: James Joyce

BONUS. What early 20th century Irish author wrote  Ulysses, the story of the  Odyssey set in modern Dublin?

----
num: 47
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: None
seen: 27
answer: see above

Bonus: give another

----
num: 48
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: (either “quam illud certamen” or “illo certamine”)

Bonus: In the same sentence, translate “than that certamen.”

----
num: 49
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: Pentheus

Bonus.  The Maenads tore up this cousin of Dionysus, who didn’t believe in Dionysus’s divinity.

----
num: 50
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 27
answer: cēdo means yield or move, and caedo means cut or kill

Bonus: Differentiate in meaning between  cēdo and  caedo.

----
num: 51
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: -1
seen: 30
answer: interrogative adjective

Bonus: What use of  quam  is found in the following sentence?  Quam arborem ascendit?

----
num: 52
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 27
answer: Pyrrha and Deucalion

Bonus.  We’re known as a couple repopulating the earth, one rock at a time.

----
num: 53
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: Aequus, a, um

Bonus: From what Latin adjective is “equator” derived?

----
num: 54
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 57
seen: 27
answer: {Andromache}

Bonus: Who was the said wife?

----
num: 55
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 32
answer: {Requiescat in Pace/} Let/May he/she rest in peace

Bonus:  Give the Latin and English for the abbreviation: RIP

----
num: 56
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: Lucius Verus

Bonus:  Who co-ruled with Marcus Aurelius, for part of his rule?

----
num: 57
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 26
answer: interrogative adjective

Bonus: What use of  quam  is found in the following sentence?  Quam arborem ascendit?

----
num: 58
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: navis, ship, and  agere/ to drive

Bonus:  Netscape Navigator is another web browser.  From what noun AND verb with what meanings do we get the word “navigator”?

----
num: 59
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 28
answer: Dictys

Bonus.  This man, a fisherman and brother of Polydectes, had rescued Danae and Perseus from the box in the first place. He was instated king after Polydectes met his demise.

----
num: 60
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: -1
seen: 29
answer: calx, calcis meaning “stone”, or “heel”, “chalk”, or “goal line”

Bonus: From what Latin noun with what meaning is “calculus” ultimately derived?

----
num: 61
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 27
answer: Hadrian

Bonus:  Which Roman emperor added the dome to the building?

----
num: 62
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 27
answer: Phillipis

Bonus:  Now translate “in Phillippi”.

----
num: 63
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 28
answer: Weather

Bonus:  What is the meaning of  tempestas, tempestatis?

----
num: 64
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 20
answer: Minyades/ Minyae

Bonus: Who are we? We sisters scorned the rites of Bacchus, so he turned us into bats.

----
num: 65
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 20
answer: Meliores gradus sunt meis amicis quam mihi

Bonus. Again using a dative of possession, translate into Latin: “My friends have better grades than me.”

----
num: 66
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 19
answer: {Perseus}

Bonus: Mycenae is said to have been founded by what hero of legend?

----
num: 67
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 15
answer: Everything had to be done by me at once

Bonus: Now translate that sentence

----
num: 68
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 22
answer: Rhetoric

Bonus:  What subject did Quintilian primarily concern himself with?

----
num: 69
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 19
answer: Noli/ Nolite loqui

Bonus:  In school, teachers are much more likely to say ‘Don’t talk’ than ‘Talk!’.  How would you render that in Latin, using the verb  loquor?

----
num: 70
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 22
answer: Juturna

Bonus: Iris took whose form in book 12 of the Aeneid??

----
num: 71
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 23
answer: Omphalos stone

Bonus: At the same site as the Pythian games, there was a stone thought by Greeks to be the center of the universe. Give the name of this stone.

----
num: 72
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 18
answer: Parco (peperci)

Bonus. Of those 4 verbs, which has a reduplicative perfect stem?

----
num: 73
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 19
answer: Until

Bonus.  “Dum” is a word that means “while” or “as long as” in the indicative, but when used with the subjunctive how would one translate it?

----
num: 74
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 20
answer: Sychaeus

Bonus: Who was Dido’s murdered husband?

----
num: 75
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 22
answer: Tomis, on the Black Sea.

Bonus 1:  Ovid was exiled due to his “Carmen et error”.  To what place was he exiled?

----
num: 76
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 17
answer: Minos

Bonus: Quis sum? Daedalus necavit me in thermis.

----
num: 77
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 23
answer: Vis, vis, vi, vim, vi

Bonus. Decline  vis in the singular:

----
num: 78
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 19
answer: Dodona

Bonus: Which of these is an oracle of Jupiter?

----
num: 79
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 20
answer: Dignitas

Bonus: What other value, meaning “prestige” or “worth,” is associated with Cicero?

----
num: 80
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 19
answer: Adjectives

Bonus. Complete the following analogy: gerunds are to nouns as gerundives are to what?

----
num: 81
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 21
answer: Seneca

Bonus:  Medea was a play written by the Greek playwright Euripides, but also by what Roman author of the Silver Age?

----
num: 82
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 22
answer: Gladius

Bonus.  Give a Latin synonym for ‘ensis’.

----
num: 83
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 20
answer: Arcuum

Bonus. Translate just the 4th declension word in the following sentence.  “The strings of their bows were very strong.”

----
num: 84
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 16
answer: Paphos

Bonus: What city, the Cyprus’ capital, was named from the child of Pygmalion- at least according to Ovid?

----
num: 85
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 17
answer: Deiphobe

Bonus: In the  Aeneid, what is the name of the Cumaean Sibyl?

----
num: 86
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 20
answer: Lex {Manilia}

Bonus:  Which law gave Pompey command against Mithridates that next year?

----
num: 87
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 22
answer: Bond, or bridge.

Bonus 1:  What does the Greek word “Zeugma” mean?

----
num: 88
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 21
answer: Aegina

Bonus: On what island, named for a lover of Zeus, did the Myrmidons originate?

----
num: 89
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 17
answer: Metonymy

Bonus. In Catullus 64, Amphitrite stands for the sea over which she rules. What poetic device is this an example of?

----
num: 90
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 18
answer: Eat (or synonyms)

Bonus. Translate just the subjunctive in the following sentence. “I don’t know where she is going.”

----
num: 91
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 23
answer: Coronis

Bonus: A crow told Apollo that this woman had cheated on him.

----
num: 92
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 20
answer: His Dark Materials

Bonus: Well, you can’t read the serious stuff all the time.  What popular fantasy series would the Romans would have called “Eius Obscurae Materiae”