####
tournament: Question Set C
round: Round-7C-MS.pdf
####

num: 1
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 7

What is the pH of a neutral aqueous solution?

----
num: 1
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Hydronium  (Accept:  Hydrogen or H^3o+ or H+)

If a solution has a low pH, what ion predominates in the solution?

----
num: 3
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: 14.1
(Solution:  C = a 2 = 10 2 - 14.1m)

Giving your answer in meters to the first decimal place, if one leg of an isosceles right triangle is 10 meters long, how long is the hypotenuse?

----
num: 3
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 4

Consider 2 cars that start from the same point along a highway and travel in the same direction. One car travels at a constant rate of 40 miles per hour and the other at a constant rate of 50 miles per hour. How many hours later are the cars 40 miles apart?

----
num: 4
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Nickel  (Accept:  Ni)

What metallic element is silvery white, takes on a high polish, is extensively used for making stainless steel and other corrosion-resistant alloys, and is used in making rechargeable batteries?

----
num: 5
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Head;  Thorax;  Abdomen  (In Any Order)

The grasshopper body is grossly divided into what 3 parts?

----
num: 6
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Wheel and Axle

If a screwdriver is used to tighten a screw, then the screwdriver is an example of what simple machine?

----
num: 6
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 686  (Accept:  700)

What is the force, in newtons, with which gravity pulls a 70-kilogram person towards the Earth’s surface?

----
num: 7
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Carbon Dioxide  (Accept:  Co
^2)

Human-induced global climate change is believed to be caused primarily by the release of what gas into the atmosphere?

----
num: 9
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 25.35
(Solution: 2500cm = 25m;  350mm = 0.35m;  25m + 0.35m = 25.35 Meters)

Giving your answer in meters rounded to the second decimal place, add 2,500 centimeters to 350 millimeters:

----
num: 10
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: 23

How many chromosomes does a mature human sperm typically have?

----
num: 10
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 10
answer: O

Of the 4 main blood types, what type has the LEAST amount of reacting antigens and is therefore the most common type for blood transfusions?

----
num: 12
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: P-Wave

Of the following 3 seismic waves, name all that can travel through Earth’s liquid outer core: S-wave; surface wave; P-wave

----
num: 13
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: -3
(Solution: C + 1 = 6, C = 5;  B + 5 = 20, B = 15;  a + 15 = 12, a = -3)

If a + b = 12, b + c = 20, and c + d = 6, find a if d = 1:

----
num: 13
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 31,400
(Solution:  a =  πR^2 = (3.14)(100)^2 = 31,400 Cm^2)

Using π = 3.14, give the integer value, in square centimeters, for the area of a circle whose diameter is 200 centimeters:

----
num: 15
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Stamen  (Accept: Anther)

What is the scientific term for the male reproductive structure in plants?

----
num: 15
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Tap Root

What is the MOST common term for the root system in most dicots?

----
num: 16
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 5   (Accept 4.87)

What is the total pressure, in atmospheres, at a depth of 40 meters in saltwater?

----
num: 18
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: No Solution  (Accept:  Empty Set)

Solve the following equation for x:  (x – 3) = –7 (read as: the absolute value of, parenthesis, x – 3, close parenthesis, equals negative 7)

----
num: 18
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 16 and  -16

Solve the following equation for x over the real number: (64)^2 = 16x^2

----
num: 20
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Proteins

Of the 4 general types of biological molecules: proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids, under which one would most enzymes be categorized?

----
num: 22
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Subduction

What is the name of the process that occurs along a convergent plate boundary whereby one of the plates bends and sinks into the mantle?

----
num: 23
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 2
(Solution:  1/x = 1/3 + 1/6;  X = 2hrs)

If Dan can paint a wall in 3 hours but Ryan takes 6 hours, how many hours will it take them to paint the wall if they work together?

----
num: 25
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Molting

What is the scientific term for the process arthropods go through to shed their exoskeleton to allow them to grow into a new one?

----
num: 25
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Keratin

What is the primary protein from which eagles talons are made?