####
tournament: Question Set C
round: Round-5C-MS.pdf
####

num: 1
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 12.0

Giving your answer in liters and rounded to the first decimal place, what volume of fluid results after adding 3,400 milliliters of solution A and 34 deciliters of solution B to 5.2 liters of water?

----
num: 2
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Fleas

Which one of the following 5 organisms is LEAST related to the others: mites; spiders; scorpions; fleas; ticks

----
num: 3
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 4
answer: 1

What is the mass, in grams, of 1 cubic centimeter of water at standard temperature and pressure?

----
num: 4
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Periods

Eras on the Geological Time Scale are directly subdivided into what time units?

----
num: 5
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 4,800
(Solution:  4 × 1200 = 4800)

How many 4 ounce containers can be packed from 1200 pounds of dry tea leaves?

----
num: 5
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 22

Evaluate the following expression: 6 + 2(5 + 4 – 1) (read as: 6 + 2, open parenthesis, 5 plus 4 minus 1, close parenthesis)

----
num: 6
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 42
(Solution: 2000 Mg = 2g;  0.04kg = 40g;  2g + 40g = 42 Grams)

Giving your answer in grams, add 2,000 milligrams to 0.04 kilograms:

----
num: 8
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Free Fall

What is the most common term used to describe why astronauts orbiting the Earth experience apparent weightlessness?

----
num: 8
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Terminal Velocity

What is the most common term for the maximum downward speed an object can attain, considering air resistance, when it is in free fall from a few miles up in the atmosphere?

----
num: 10
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 25
(Solution: (10,500 – 7,500)/(120 – 0) = 25 Ft/min)

If it takes a hiker 2 hours to make a descent from 10,500 feet to 7,500 feet, what is his average rate of decent, in feet per minute?

----
num: 12
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Amino Acids

What is the general name for the twenty or so different building blocks from which most proteins are made?

----
num: 12
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Transfer Rna  (Accept: Trna)

What specific type of nucleic acid carries an amino acid to a growing protein?

----
num: 13
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 75

If 50 grams of one reactant chemically combines with 25 grams of another reactant to form a product, what is the total mass, in grams, of the product?

----
num: 14
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Olympus  (Accept:  Olympus Mons or Mt. Olympus)

What is the name for the highest mountain on any planet in the Solar System?

----
num: 15
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Loss of 17

What was the net gain or loss in yardage for a football team that in four straight plays gained 12 yards, then lost 9 yards, gained 3 yards, and finally lost 23 yards?

----
num: 15
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 42
(Solution:  2x + 96 = 180;  X = 42º)

Consider an isosceles triangle whose 2 sides of equal length meet to form a vertex angle of 96º. What is the degree measure of each base angle?

----
num: 16
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Rice

Which one of the following 5 grains feeds more people, accounting for the core food of about one-half of all humans on Earth: corn; barley; wheat; rice; sorghum

----
num: 17
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Cell Wall  (Accept: Wall)

What structure is exterior to the plasma membrane of a plant cell that is absent from an animal cell?

----
num: 17
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Cellulose

Plant cell walls are made primarily of microfibers of what common polysaccharide?

----
num: 18
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 69

If sodium has an atomic mass of 23 and an atomic number of 11, what is the mass, in grams, of 3 moles of sodium?

----
num: 19
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Oceans  (Accept:  Seas)  (Do Not Accept:  Water)

The bulk of the thermal energy at the Earth’s surface is stored in what major reservoir?

----
num: 20
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 61

If one of 2 complementary angles is 32º greater than the other, how many degrees is the larger angle?

----
num: 20
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 25
(Solution:  a = ½(B)(h) = ½ (10)(5) = 25 M^2)

Find the area of a triangle, in meters squared, given a base of 10 meters and height of 5 meters:

----
num: 22
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Hammer;  Anvil;  Stapes;  Oval Window

Order the following 4 human ear structures from the 
OUTERMOST to the INNERMOST: anvil; stapes; hammer; oval window

----
num: 23
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 4

What is the ideal mechanical advantage of a lever where the effort force is one-quarter that needed to lift a resistance force?

----
num: 23
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 50

What is the frequency of a 50-hertz wave, in cycles per second, if the wave has an amplitude of 2 meters?

----
num: 24
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Slate

Which one of the following 5 choices is a metamorphic rock:tuff; obsidian; sl ate; gabbro; peridotite

----
num: 25
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: 63, 64, 65

What three consecutive numbers add up to 192?