####
tournament: Question Set C
round: Round-1C-MS.pdf
####

num: 1
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Carbohydrates

Of the 4 general types of biological molecules, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids, which one typically accounts for the majority of dietary calories in the human diet?

----
num: 1
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 12
answer: Glucose

Starch and glycogen are polymers of what simple sugar?

----
num: 2
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Water

What is the only common substance on Earth that exists naturally in the solid , liquid and gaseous states?

----
num: 2
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Silicon and Oxygen

Silicon dioxide is made of what two elements?

----
num: 3
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Sun  (Accept:  Solar)

What energy source is the primary driver of the Earth’s water cycle?

----
num: 3
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Mercury;  Venus;  Earth;  Mars

Name all the terrestrial planets from the one that is CLOSEST to the Sun to the one that is FARTHEST from the Sun:

----
num: 4
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 15

What is the average of the positive whole numbers of 1 through 29?

----
num: 5
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: 0.3

Convert 300 milliliters into liters:

----
num: 5
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Control  (Accept:  Control Group)

What is the name for the manipulated variable group in all experiments that is compared to the experimental group?

----
num: 7
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Electrons

The overall charge of an atom of a certain element depends on the gaining or losing of what sub-atomic particles?

----
num: 7
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 8

How many electrons are in the outer shell of a noble gas with an atomic mass greater than 3?

----
num: 8
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 9
answer: Iron and Nickel  (In Any Order)

Which 2 of the following 5 elements is the Earth’s outer core thought to be primarily made of: aluminum; sodium; iron; silicon; nickel

----
num: 9
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 52.17

Giving your answer to the second decimal place, add the following three numbers: 47 + 4.7 + 0.47

----
num: 9
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 15.951

Giving your answer to the third decimal place, subtract the following two numbers: 18 – 2.049

----
num: 10
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Venus

What planet in our Solar System is about the same size as the Earth, is tectonically active, and has a thick atmosphere com posed of carbon dioxide?

----
num: 10
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Calorie  (Accept:  Kilocalorie)

The amount of energy stored in food is commonly measured in what unit?

----
num: 11
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Leaves

What are the most photosynthetic organs of most higher plants?

----
num: 11
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Chloroplast

What higher plant cell organelle is responsible for using sunlight to convert carbon dioxide and water into sugar and oxygen?

----
num: 12
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Weight

What is the common term for the force of gravity that is exerted on an object?

----
num: 12
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Newton

What metric unit is most appropriate for weight?

----
num: 13
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Silicon  and Oxygen (In Any Order)

Which 2 of the following 5 elements are most abundant in the Earth’s crust: iron; nickel; carbon; silicon; oxygen

----
num: 14
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 0.001

Giving your answer as a decimal number, what does 10 to the minus three power equal?

----
num: 14
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: $132.00

What is the total price of admission to the theater for 2 adults and 4 children if the ticket price for adults is $30.00 and for children is $18.00?

----
num: 16
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Cell Wall  (Accept: Wall)

What outer structure possessed by plant cells protects them from environmental changes and helps them maintain their shape during stress and times of water loss?

----
num: 17
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Reactants = Sodium and Fluorine;   Products =  Sodium Fluoride

In the reaction sodium plus fluorine yields sodium fluoride, what are the reactants and products, respectively?

----
num: 18
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Coal

Which one of the following 5 choices is NOT a mineral: diamond; asbestos; graphite; coal; talc

----
num: 19
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 590,700

Round the number 590,695 to the nearest hundred:

----
num: 19
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: 23 and 29

Name all the prime numbers greater than 20 and less than 30:

----
num: 20
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Carbon

Most plastics are based on monomers that are composed of what element that forms the backbone of the polymer?

----
num: 20
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Cellulose

What natural polymer is the main component of cotton?

----
num: 21
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Carbon Dioxide  (Accept:  Co
^2)

What molecule is released from muscles as a waste product, transported to the lungs in blood, and exhaled as a gas?

----
num: 22
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Solid

Which one of the 4 states of matter is described as having a definite shape and volume?

----
num: 22
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Crystal  (Accept:  Crystal Lattice)

What is the specific name for the type of solid where the atoms or molecules of the solid are arranged in a geometric repeating arrangement?

----
num: 23
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Spring (Tides)

What is the specific name for the very high and very low tides that occur when the Sun and Moon are in line with the Earth?

----
num: 24
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: 20

Evaluate the following expression:  20 – 30 +  30 – 20 (read as: open absolute value 20 minus 30 close absolute value, plus open absolute value 30 minus 20, close absolute value)

----
num: 24
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 29.73

Giving your answer as a decimal to two places, divide the following: 32711

----
num: 25
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: 10,000

10 kilowatts is equal to how many watts?

----
num: 25
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: Meter and Second

What are the SI units for length and time?