####
tournament: Thomas Jefferson Certamen
round: Round 1-3
year: 2008
####

num: 1
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Pebble

Toss-Up #1 Everybody at TJ takes calculus.  What is the meaning of the Latin noun calculus?

----
num: 1
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 59
answer: septem

Toss-Up #1   Responde Latine.  Quot oculi sunt Cerbero et Polyphemo, in toto?

----
num: 1
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: Present

Toss-Up #1: What tense of the subjunctive is used for the hortatory constructions?

----
num: 1
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: Scio, scire, to know

TOSS-UP #1: I hope that you are enjoying our Certamen at TJ Sci-Tech.  From what Latin verb with what meaning do we get the word “science”?

----
num: 1
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 39
answer: Dyrrhacium in 48 B.C.E

Toss-Up #1:  The history theme for the third round is rulers, battles and laws.  During the Civil war with Pompey, where and when did Caesar suffer a major defeat upon landing in Greece?

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 56
answer: {Perseus}

Toss-Up #2 Who am I? It was prophesied that I would kill my grandfather, Acrisius, so I was shut into a wooden box and thrown into the sea.

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: None
seen: 58
answer: Pompey, Julius Caesar, Crassus

Toss-Up #2:  Please name the members of the first triumvirate.

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Vercingetorix

Toss-Up #2:  Which Gallic chieftan led a revolt against Caesar, and was finally defeated in 52 B.C.E?

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: Stoicism

Toss-Up #2.  What philosophy teaches that self-control, fortitude, and detachment from distracting emotions allow one to become a clear thinker?

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: Gaius

Toss-Up #2: Responde Latine: Quod erat praenomen Caesaris?

----
num: 2
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 37
answer: Dactyl

Toss-up #2  Ancient poets named a certain metrical foot after their finger, because fingers have a long bone followed by two short bones.  What was this type of foot called?

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 55
answer: Jocasta

Toss-Up #3 Who was Oedipus’ mother and wife?

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Hecate

Toss-Up #3 This three-faced goddess ruled crossroads and witchcraft.

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 45
answer: Extent of time

Toss-Up #3: What type of accusative is found in the following sentence?  Canis duas menses dormiebat.

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 46
answer: Genitive

Toss-Up #3: What case do the adjectives peritus, cupidus, and plenus take?

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 48
answer: To the Spirits of the Dead

TOSS UP #3:  What does it mean if a Roman tombstone says, “Dis Manibus.”

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 37
answer: As/how/when

Toss Up 3. We all know that “ut” is a word that often followed by the subjunctive, but when used with the indicative how would one translate it?

----
num: 3
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: -1
seen: 38
answer: ‘munus’

Toss Up 3. There are a lot of weapons used in Latin poetry.  Which from the following list is NOT a weapon? ‘tela’, ‘arcus’, ‘ensis’, ‘sagitta’, ‘munus’?

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 57
answer: {April 21, 753 B.C.[E]}

Toss-Up #4:  Please give the exact date for the founding of Rome.

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 43
answer: Danaids

Toss Up #4. This group of daughters were told to kill their husbands on their wedding nights; ninety-eight percent of daughters did. Who were these daughters?

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 44
answer: {Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus} Pius, Marcus {Aurelius}

Toss-Up #4:  I think we can all agree that the solutions suggested in the previous round were a little far fetched.  So as we continue to ponder possible answers to our political dilemma, let us get a few normal history questions.  Please name the 5 good emperors in order.

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 38
answer: Maenads

Toss-Up #4 What was the name given to female followers of Bacchus?

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 57
seen: 38
answer: Pygmalion

Toss-Up #4   I am the brother of Dido, and I murdered her husband.  In mythology I share my name with Galatea’s husband.  Who am I?

----
num: 4
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 39
answer: Masculine, Feminine, Neuter

Toss Up 4. What are the possible genders for 4th declension nouns?

----
num: 5
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 57
answer: Albati, Veneti, Prasini, Russati

Toss-up #5:  Give the Latin names of the four teams or factiones that competed in chariot races?

----
num: 5
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: Possession

Toss-Up #5: Please give the use of the dative case in the following sentence: Mihi est consilium.

----
num: 5
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 37
answer: Optimi gradus sunt mihi

Toss Up 5. Using the Latin noun for ‘step’, translate the following English sentence into Latin using a dative of possession: “I have the best grades.”

----
num: 5
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 57
seen: 38
answer: {Epicureanism}

Toss-Up #5  Complete this analogy: Self-restraint is to stoicism as pleasure is to ____.

----
num: 5
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 57
seen: 38
answer: {Cyprus}

Toss-Up #5  What island was home to Teucer, Pygmalion, and Venus?

----
num: 6
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 60
answer: septem urbes

Toss-Up #6 Say in Latin, “the seven cities”

----
num: 6
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: Thalia

Toss Up #6. Who was the muse of comedy?

----
num: 6
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 43
answer: Any two from (“of Rome” or “for Rome” or “in/at Rome”)

Toss-Up #6: Give two translations for  Romae.

----
num: 6
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 57
seen: 39
answer: {Mycenae}

Toss-Up #6  Give the name of the city that was the home of Orestes, Clytemnestra, Iphigenia, and Agamemnon.

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 57
seen: 60
answer: {Cleopatra}

Toss-Up #7:  Who was the queen of Egypt who captured the attentions of both Julius Caesar and Marc Antony, thereby gaining the hatred of most Romans?

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 59
answer: Mucius Scaevola

Toss-Up #7:  Which Roman, in an act of defiance, shoved his right hand into a flame in front of an Etruscan king?

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: huic

Toss-Up #7  Complete the analogy:  illius  is to  illi as  huius is to ___.

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 46
answer: melius

Toss-Up #7  Translate the word “better” in the sentence, “This certamen is better than that certamen.”

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 42
answer: quam with a superlative  (to say “as ___ as possible)

TOSS-UP #7: What use of  quam is found in the following sentence?  Advenite domum quam primum.

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 39
answer: Corinna

Toss up #7 Publius Ovidius Naso was a prolific writer, and apparently, lover, in ancient Rome.  What was his lover’s name in the “Amores”?

----
num: 7
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 40
answer: “Res ipsa loquitur” or “in flagrante delicto”

Tossup #7  If your Latin teacher catches you stealing Ecce Romani from the class library with the book in your hand, what legal Latin phrase might she use, despite your protests that it’s not what it seems?

----
num: 8
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 59
answer: Libertus

Toss-Up #8  What was a freed slave called?

----
num: 8
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Pyramus and Thisbe

Toss-Up #8 On what myth, told by Ovid, was “Romeo and Juliet” based?

----
num: 8
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 60
answer: Scylla and Charybdis

Toss-Up #8  Between what two monsters did Odysseus sail?

----
num: 8
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 44
answer: {verb} and {adjective}

Toss-Up #8: What two parts of speech is a participle?

----
num: 8
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 43
answer: Dionysus (Bacchus)

Toss-Up #8: The Maenads followed this god.  Who was he?

----
num: 9
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: huius

Toss-Up #9 Complete the analogy:  illi  is to  illius as  huic is to ___.

----
num: 9
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 54
answer: Vinci

Toss-Up #9  Give the present passive infinitive form of the verb  vinco, vincere.

----
num: 9
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: opus, opera/ work

Toss-Up #9: The word “opera,” also the name of a web browser, comes from what Latin noun with what meaning?

----
num: 9
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 38
answer: {Perdix/Talus/Calus}

Toss-Up #9 Quis sum? Filius sororis Daedali eram, et Daedalus me necavit.

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 55
answer: peristylium

Toss-Up #10 What did the Romans call the open courtyard in the middle of their houses, usually containing a garden and columns?

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 57
answer: Panem et circenses, or bread and circuses

Toss-Up #10  What, according to the poet Juvenal, were the only remaining cares of Romans under the Empire?

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: Plautus

Toss-Up #10.  Of the following, which author is most well known for his comedies: Catullus, Plautus, Martial?

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 42
answer: Engagement

Toss-Up #10. A “sponsalia” was a ceremony announcing what event?

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 46
answer: Polydectes

Toss Up #10:  This man, king of the island upon which the box containing Danae and Perseus landed, wanted to take Danae as his bride.

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 40
answer: Bithynia

Toss-Up #10  What province bordering the Black Sea was home to the cities Nicomedia, Chalcedon, Cius, Nicaea and Apamea?  It is also where Catullus spent a year on the staff of Gaius Memmius.

----
num: 10
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: None
seen: 37
answer: Cumae

Toss-Up #10  What is the home of the Sibyl who leads Aeneas to the underworld?

----
num: 11
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: art is long, life is short

Toss-Up #11 What does the expression  ars longa, vita brevis mean?

----
num: 11
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 41
answer: superlative

Toss-Up #11: What degree would be used to indicate that something is very short?

----
num: 11
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 46
answer: i-stems (or “semi i-stems” is acceptable)

Toss-Up #11What is the name for those nouns for which the genitive plural ends in  ium?

----
num: 11
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 40
answer: Lex {Gabinia}

Toss-Up #11:  Which law gave Pompey command against the pirates in 67 B.C.E.?

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 57
answer: 3

Toss-Up #12:  How many wars did the Romans fight with the Samnites?

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: None
seen: 56
answer: Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, Nero

Toss-Up #12:  Name the Julio-Claudian emperors in order.

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 42
answer: Licetne tibi vinum bibere?

Toss-Up #12: In Latin, ask me if I am allowed to drink wine.

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: quam with a superlative to say “as ___ as possible”

Toss-Up #12: What use of  quam is found in the following sentence?  Advenite domum quam primum.

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 40
answer: Quintilian

Toss-up #12  Which of the following authors did NOT write during the “Golden Age”: Propertius, Livy, Ovid, or Quintilian?

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 38
answer: Two.

Toss up #12 How many elisions are there in this line of poetry, which I will read aloud as prose: “Conticuere omnes, intentique ora tenebant

----
num: 12
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 37
answer: Zeugma.

Tossup #12  “Elmo was clothed in mystery and a towel.”  What literary device is this an example of?

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 54
answer: One seeking public office

Toss-Up #13  Who wore a  toga candida?

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Phaethon

Toss-Up #13 Quis sum? Filius solis sum.  Quando ego egi quadrigam solis, Iuppiter me necavit.

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 57
seen: 57
answer: Tantalus

Toss-Up #13 This man was tormented by insatiable hunger and thirst as his punishment in Tartarus:

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: Delphi

Toss-Up #13.  Where was the famous oracle dedicated to Apollo?

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 44
answer: pebble

Toss-Up #13: Everybody at TJ takes calculus.  What is the meaning of the Latin noun calculus?

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 37
answer: Present indicative, present imperative

Toss Up 13. Give the two possible tenses and moods of   loquimini?

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 41
answer: Bos

Toss Up 13. Which of the following words is not an I-stem: bos, vis, pars, mare, civis?

----
num: 13
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 39
answer: Achilles

Toss-Up #13 What soldier did the Myrmidons serve?

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: None
seen: 59
answer: {Sicily}

Toss-Up #14:  Name Rome's first province.

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: None
seen: 56
answer: opus, operis, work

Toss-Up #14 The word “opera,” also the name of a web browser, comes from what Latin noun with what meaning?

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: -1
seen: 56
answer: in/at Rome

Toss-Up #14 Give the locative translation for the word  Romae.

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 43
answer: Baucis and Philemon

Toss-Up #14. We’re known as an elderly couple associated with oak and linden trees.

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 42
answer: Agrippa

Toss-Up #14:  Who constructed the Pantheon, under Augustus’ orders?

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 39
answer: Iris

Toss-Up #14 Who was the goddess of the rainbow?

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 38
answer: Oracles.

Toss-Up #14 What do the following have in common? Dodona, Pytha, Cumae, Delphi.

----
num: 14
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 38
answer: {Lumen} (lumina)

Toss Up 14.  ‘Oculus’ is the usual word for eyes, but what word meaning ‘light’ is used as a poetic substitution for eyes?

----
num: 15
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 57
answer: Livy

Toss-Up #15  Who wrote the major historical work  Ab Urbe Condita?

----
num: 15
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: rostra

Toss-Up #15  Where would a Roman NOT go to bathe:  thermae,  balneae,  rostra, or frigidaria?

----
num: 15
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
fixed: 1
seen: 43
answer: {Capti sunt}

Toss-Up #15:  Using the verb capio, capere: Translate just the verb in the following sentence:  “The conspirators were seized in Philippi.”

----
num: 15
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 57
seen: 40
answer: {Apollo}

Toss-Up #15  The Pythian games were held in honor of which god?

----
num: 15
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 38
answer: Pietas

Toss-Up #15  Which Roman value, meaning roughly “duty,” is associated with Aeneas?

----
num: 16
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 59
answer: voice, truth, life

Toss-Up #16 Translate the motto of California State University,  vox, veritas, vita.

----
num: 16
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 55
answer: opus means work or achievement, and onus means burden or load

Toss-Up #16 Differentiate in meaning between  opus and  onus.

----
num: 16
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: Hesperides

Toss-Up #16: What daughters of Atlas were assigned to guard the Golden Apples?

----
num: 16
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: tempestatis

Toss-Up #16  Complete the analogy: vox is to vocis as tempestas is to __________.

----
num: 17
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: -1
seen: 58
answer: Matricide

Toss-Up #17 For what crime was Orestes tried?

----
num: 17
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 59
answer: Cincinnatus

Toss-Up #17:  Quis sum? I defended my people against the Aequi, who had trapped the forces of the consul Minucius Esquilinus in the Alban Hills.  Though, by law, I had six months with the powers of dictator, I returned to my farm in 15 days, after defeating the Aequan forces.  There is a city in Ohio named after me.

----
num: 17
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 59
answer: Trajan

Toss-Up #17:  Under whose rule did the Empire reach its greatest extent?

----
num: 17
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 44
answer: Cumaen Sibyl

Toss-Up #17.  Name the priestess who resided in a cave near the Greek city of Naples.

----
num: 17
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: Tango

Toss-Up #17: From what Latin verb, meaning to touch, do we get the English words integral, contiguity, and attain

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 56
answer: Cupid

Toss-Up #18 Who am I? I disguised myself as my nephew Ascanius so that I could, on my mother’s orders, shoot Dido with an arrow of love.

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Vigiles

Toss-Up #18  What were Roman policemen-firemen called?

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 43
answer: Optimates and Populares

Toss-Up #18  In America, there are Republicans and Democrats.  In Rome, they didn't really have such organized political parties, but there were names used to divide various political groups.  Name these two groups:

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 43
answer: equator

TOSS-UP #18: Which of the following words is not derived from the same Latin word as the others? Equestrian, equator, equitation, equine,?

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 45
answer: Linus

Toss Up #18.  Heracles killed this music tutor by hurling the teacher’s own lyre at him.

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 39
answer: servo, all the others take the dative case

Toss Up 18. What verb does not belong for reasons of grammar, and why?  Parco, noceo, servo, persuadeo

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 37
answer: Nouns

Toss Up 18. Complete the following analogy: participles are to adjectives as gerunds are to what?

----
num: 18
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 40
answer: Exi(v)isse ; discessisse; (or synonyms)

Toss Up 18. Translate just the infinitive in the following sentence. “I thought you had left Rome.”

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 55
answer: Crassus

Toss-Up #19:  Who was chiefly responsible for putting down Spartacus's slave revolt?

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
fixed: 1
seen: 58
answer: (magistri, magistrae) (multa, multas res) docent

Toss-Up #19 Say in Latin, “Teachers teach many things.”

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 59
answer: melius

Toss-Up #19 Translate only the word “better” in the sentence, “This certamen is better than that certamen.”

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Advanced
seen: 46
answer: Ferrum, Iron.

Toss-Up #19: Since this is a TJ certamen, a science question is necessary.  Give the Latin name and English translation of the abbreviation Fe from the periodic table:

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
fixed: 1
seen: 39
answer: Medea

Toss-Up #19 This sorceress, after killing her two sons, escaped in a carriage pulled by dragons.

----
num: 19
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 41
answer: Clytie

Toss-Up #19 What nymph was turned into a sunflower, as she pined away for Apollo’s love?

----
num: 20
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Intermediate
seen: 58
answer: Sirius Black

Toss-Up #20 What JK Rowling character am I?  My first name is another name for the dog-star, quite appropriate given how I can transform.  If my last name were also Latin it would be “Ater” or “Niger.”.

----
num: 20
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 40
answer: Clodius

Toss-Up #20:  The last history question of the round will connect to The Sopranos, a television show which recently aired its last episode.  Like in the TV show, gangs were also present in ancient Rome.  The most famous occurrence of gangs was during the late Republic with the conflict between Clodius and Milo.  Which of these men died first?

----
num: 20
category: Unlabeled
difficulty: Upper
seen: 36
answer: A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man

Toss-Up #20. Welcome to the  Biblioteca Romana.   What is the name of the English class classic the Romans would have called ”Pictura Artificis Iuvenis”?