####
tournament: Sample Questions
round: sample_questions_r4.pdf
####

num: 1
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 1 Ampere
(Solution:  Current = Watt S/volts; 100/100 = 1 Ampere)

A 100-watt light bulb is li ghted by a 100 volt power source. What is the current, in amperes, running through the bulb?

----
num: 1
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 1 Ampere
(Solution:  Current = Watt S/volts; 100/100 = 1 Ampere)

A 100-watt light bulb is li ghted by a 100 volt power source. What is the current, in amperes, running through the bulb?

----
num: 2
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Taxis

What is the common botanical te rm for the response a cell or plant has towards or aw ay from a stimulus?

----
num: 2
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Taxis

What is the common botanical te rm for the response a cell or plant has towards or aw ay from a stimulus?

----
num: 3
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: The Chromosphere

What layer of the Sun’s atm osphere is immediately inte rior to the corona?

----
num: 3
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 10,000

How many angstroms are in 1 micron?

----
num: 3
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: The Chromosphere

What layer of the Sun’s atm osphere is immediately inte rior to the corona?

----
num: 3
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 10,000

How many angstroms are in 1 micron?

----
num: 5
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 78

What does 12 times 13 divided by 2 equal?

----
num: 5
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 24

Four factorial equals what num ber?

----
num: 5
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 78

What does 12 times 13 divided by 2 equal?

----
num: 5
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 24

Four factorial equals what num ber?

----
num: 7
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: The Id

Sigmund Freud proposed the idea that the subconscious mind exited in three separate divi sions two of which he called the ego and the superego. What was the third?

----
num: 7
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: The Id

Sigmund Freud proposed the idea that the subconscious mind exited in three separate divi sions two of which he called the ego and the superego. What was the third?

----
num: 10
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Pythagorean Theorem  (Accept: Pythagorean or Pythagoras

What is the name of the famous theorem of geometry that states the sum of the squares of a right triangle is equal to the square of the hypotenuse?

----
num: 10
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 1961

What is the following Roman Numeral number equal to in an Arabic number: MCMLXI

----
num: 10
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Pythagorean Theorem  (Accept: Pythagorean or Pythagoras

What is the name of the famous theorem of geometry that states the sum of the squares of a right triangle is equal to the square of the hypotenuse?

----
num: 10
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 1961

What is the following Roman Numeral number equal to in an Arabic number: MCMLXI

----
num: 11
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 2 Newtons
(Solution:  Force = Resistance / M Echanical Advan Tage)

Assuming friction is negligible, if a lever has a mechanical advantage o f 5, how much effort in newtons is needed to lift a 10 newton load?

----
num: 11
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 2 Newtons
(Solution:  Force = Resistance / M Echanical Advan Tage)

Assuming friction is negligible, if a lever has a mechanical advantage o f 5, how much effort in newtons is needed to lift a 10 newton load?

----
num: 12
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: O, A, B, and Ab

What are the four main human blood types?

----
num: 12
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: O, A, B, and Ab

What are the four main human blood types?

----
num: 13
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: -48

Solve the following equation:6x = -8

----
num: 13
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 7
answer: 314
(Solution:  a =  πR^2)

Find the area of a circle when the radius equ als 10:

----
num: 13
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: -48

Solve the following equation:6x = -8

----
num: 13
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 314
(Solution:  a =  πR^2)

Find the area of a circle when the radius equ als 10:

----
num: 14
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Meteorite

A meteor that reaches the surface of the Earth is m ore accurately called a:

----
num: 14
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Meteorite

A meteor that reaches the surface of the Earth is m ore accurately called a:

----
num: 16
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 212°

Rounded to the nearest whole num ber, what is the tem perature in Fahrenheit of a substance at 100 °C ?

----
num: 16
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: 212°

Rounded to the nearest whole num ber, what is the tem perature in Fahrenheit of a substance at 100 °C ?

----
num: 18
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 10

What is the smallest two-digit whole num ber?

----
num: 18
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 25%
(Solution = 70-56= 14, 14/56=25%)

On your first math test you scored a 56% and on the second test you scored 70%. By what percenta ge did you increase your score?

----
num: 18
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 10

What is the smallest two-digit whole num ber?

----
num: 18
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 25%
(Solution = 70-56= 14, 14/56=25%)

On your first math test you scored a 56% and on the second test you scored 70%. By what percenta ge did you increase your score?

----
num: 21
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Objective

In a compound light microscope, the lens closest to the specim en is usually called the

----
num: 21
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Objective

In a compound light microscope, the lens closest to the specim en is usually called the

----
num: 25
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: -120

Multiply the followin g 5 numbers: (-2)(-5)(-4)(-3)(-1)

----
num: 25
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: -120

Multiply the followin g 5 numbers: (-2)(-5)(-4)(-3)(-1)