####
tournament: HSAPQ Colonia 2
round: colonia-01.pdf
year: 2011
####

num: 1
category: Fine Arts
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 502
answer: The {Rite} of {Spring} [or Le {sacre du printemps} or {Vesna svyashchennaya} ]

An anthology of Lithuanian folksongs by Anton Juszkiewicz (YUSH-keh-vich) is thought to be the source for many melodies in this composition, whose original sets were designed by Nicholas Roerich. It opens with a bassoon solo and includes such scenes as “Ritual of Abduction” and “Sacrificial Dance.” Subtitled “Pictures from Pagan Russia” and opening with the section “Adoration of the Earth,” this ballet is known for its extensive use of dissonance and polytonality, leading to a riot at its 1913 premiere. For 10 points, name this ballet by Igor Stravinsky.

----
num: 2
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 416
answer: {Louisiana} Purchase

This agreement was called "the noblest work of our whole lives" by one of its negotiators, Robert Livingston. Its boundaries were in dispute as a result of the lack of specificity of the Third Treaty of San Ildefonso between Spain and France. It was opposed by Talleyrand in France and the Federalist Party in the United States. This agreement led to the Lewis and Clark expedition, whose goal was to explore the newly acquired territory. For 10 points, name this 1803 purchase in which the United States acquired land from France.

----
num: 2
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 415
answer: {Louisiana} Purchase

This agreement was called "the noblest work of our whole lives" by one of its negotiators, Robert Livingston. Its boundaries were in dispute as a result of the lack of specificity of the Third Treaty of San Ildefonso between Spain and France. It was opposed by Talleyrand in France and the Federalist Party in the United States. This agreement led to the Lewis and Clark expedition, whose goal was to explore the newly acquired territory. For 10 points, name this 1803 purchase in which the United States acquired land from France.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: {Pilgrim's Progress}

In this work, the House of the Interpreter matches the description of a rectory where the author once sought counsel from John Gifford. At one point in this work, the pillar of salt that used to be Lot's wife is found in the Valley of Ease. Pliable abandons the main character at the Slough of Despond. The companion of the protagonist, Faithful, is killed when he refuses to purchase the wares of Vanity Fair. This work follows Christian's travels down the King's Highway. For 10 points, name this religious allegory by John Bunyan.

----
num: 4
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 471
answer: {spleen}

This organ produces a tetrapeptide, which bonds to macrophage receptors, and is known as tuftsin. The sinusoids of one portion of this organ contain blood and a reserve of monocytes which can be utilized in the case of hemorrhagic shock. The other major portion of this organ contains Malphigian corpsules and synthesizes antibodies. Located in the abdominal region and consisting of red and white pulp, for 10 points, name this organ part of the lymphatic system that helps to filter and clean the blood.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 436
answer: Francis Scott Key {Fitzgerald}

This author wrote about the golf caddy Dexter Green’s unrequited love for Judy Jones in “Winter Dreams.” He wrote of Charlie Wales’s separation from his daughter Honoria as he is haunted by his past excesses in “Babylon Revisited.” He wrote about the Princeton student Amory Blaine in his debut novel This Side of Paradise, and partially based the character of Daisy Buchanan in another novel on his own wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this author who included Nick Carraway as the narrator of The Great Gatsby.

----
num: 6
category: Social Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 374
answer: Stanley {Milgram}

This psychologist planted letters in public places in his "lost letter" experiment. He conducted an experiment in which participants where asked to forward letters to acquaintances. That experiment, the small world experiment, popularized the idea of "six degrees of separation." In his most famous experiment, an actor claiming to have a heart condition was quizzed on word pairs. For 10 points, name this psychologist who tested obedience by asking participants to administer electric shocks.

----
num: 6
category: Social Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 386
answer: Stanley {Milgram}

This psychologist planted letters in public places in his "lost letter" experiment. He conducted an experiment in which participants where asked to forward letters to acquaintances. That experiment, the small world experiment, popularized the idea of "six degrees of separation." In his most famous experiment, an actor claiming to have a heart condition was quizzed on word pairs. For 10 points, name this psychologist who tested obedience by asking participants to administer electric shocks.

----
num: 7
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 486
answer: {Reptilia} [or {reptiles} ]

These animals do not produce very concentrated urine because their kidneys lack loops of Henle and instead rely on the colon to reabsorb water. A suborder in this class of animals uses infrared sensitivity to detect prey; those animals are in the Squamata group that includes the Gila monster. Their thin skin consists of a horny epidermis, leaving them to be protected by armor-forming scutes. Herpetologists study these animals, which use lungs and lay amniotic eggs. For 10 points, identify this cold-blooded class of animals that includes turtles and snakes.

----
num: 8
category: Mythology
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 784
answer: Prometheus

In the Theogony, Hesiod describes this figure as "wily" and "ready-witted," and his story is also told in Hesiod's Works and Days. At Mekone (meh-CO-nay), he tries to trick Zeus by wrapping the bones of an ox inside its fat. He forecasts the travels of Io in a play by Aeschylus in which he is "bound," a punishment which results from his theft of a certain item, which he hides in a reed. For 10 points, name this Titan who stole fire and gave it to humans.

----
num: 9
category: Trash
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 1040
answer: lacrosse

This sport's indoor variety, known as its "box" type, features smaller goals and a shot clock to increase the pace of play. One team that competes in this sport's international events is the Iroquois Nationals. A team may have seven players on its half of the field at any given time, but only up to six players on the opposing side's half of the field. Three players of this sport at Duke University were charged with sexual crimes in 2006. For 10 points, name this field sport played with a stick that has a net on one end.

----
num: 10
category: Fine Arts
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 499
answer: {Turandot} ({tur}-an-{DOT})

One aria in this opera ends with the tenor singing "Vincerò! Vincerò!," or "I will win! I will win!" Its title character sings the aria "In questa reggia" to explain the significance of three riddles she asks to potential suitors, including a man known as the Unknown Prince. That character, who is advised against pursuing the titular princess by the ministers Ping, Pang, and Pong, is actually named Calàf and sings the aria "Nessun dorma" in this opera’s third act. For 10 points, name this opera about the title Chinese princess, written by Giacomo Puccini.

----
num: 11
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 414
answer: {Cherokee}

Elias Boudinot edited this people’s newspaper, the Phoenix. With commissioners William Carroll and John F. Schermerhorn, this people signed the Treaty of New Echota (eh-CHO-tah). The Supreme Court ruled that this people was a “domestic dependent nation” in the case of this people versus Georgia. Sequoyah (sih-KOY-ah) created this people's alphabet. Andrew Jackson used the Indian Removal Act to justify the relocation of this people to Oklahoma. For 10 points, name this Native American tribe that marched along the Trail of Tears.

----
num: 12
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 489
answer: {ellipse} [do not accept " oval "]

This shape is the special case of a hypotrochoid where the radius of the small circle is half the radius of the large circle. One of these shapes has an eccentricity of between zero and one, and has two foci, which lie on its major axis. Kepler's first law of planetary motion states that planetary orbits are in this shape. For 10 points, name this oval-shaped conic section.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: {Candide}

In Venice, this character meets Pococurante, who grieves him by insulting Homer and Milton. In El Dorado, this character obtains red sheep laden with gold. This character is expelled from the castle of Baron Thunder-Ten-Tronckh for kissing Cunegonde. He is taught by Dr. Pangloss, a parody of Leibniz, who teaches that this is the "best of all possible worlds." For 10 points, name this title character of a satire by Voltaire.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: Emily Elizabeth {Dickinson}

In one work by this poet, the narrator describes being an "inebriate of air" and a "debauchee of dew" because they "taste a liquor never brewed." Another poem by this writer describes a "blue, uncertain, stumbling" sound that occurred at the title moment in "I heard a fly buzz when I died." This poet also wrote a poem about horses whose "heads were toward eternity" during a carriage ride with Immortality and another figure. For 10 points, name this writer of "Because I could not stop for Death," a reclusive and prolific female poet who lived in Massachusetts.

----
num: 15
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 416
answer: {Maryland}

This state’s colonial governor William Stone was defeated by a puritan army at the Battle of the Severn after a period of instability called “the plundering time.” This state was the site of the Battle of Bladensburg, and in another War of 1812 action, forces under George Armistead withstood a 25 hour bombardment at its Fort McHenry. During the Civil War, a battle in this state was the bloodiest single-day battle in American history. For 10 points, name this state which was first colonized by Cecilius Calvert, the 2nd Baron Baltimore.

----
num: 15
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 421
answer: {Maryland}

This state’s colonial governor William Stone was defeated by a puritan army at the Battle of the Severn after a period of instability called “the plundering time.” This state was the site of the Battle of Bladensburg, and in another War of 1812 action, forces under George Armistead withstood a 25 hour bombardment at its Fort McHenry. During the Civil War, a battle in this state was the bloodiest single-day battle in American history. For 10 points, name this state which was first colonized by Cecilius Calvert, the 2nd Baron Baltimore.

----
num: 16
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 420
answer: Republic of {Hungary} [or {Magyarorszag} ; or {Magyar Koztarsasag} ]

This country lost much of its territory in the Treaty of Trianon. Members of this country's Arpad dynasty include Stephen I, its first king. During this nation's communist period, it was led by János Kádár (YA-nos KA-dar). This country saw reforms that led to "Goulash Communism." Through the Ausgleich (OWS-glaik) of 1867, this country spent the later half of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as part of a dual monarchy with Austria. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Budapest.

----
num: 16
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 416
answer: Republic of {Hungary} [or {Magyarorszag}; or {Magyar Koztarsasag}]

This country lost much of its territory in the Treaty of Trianon. Members of this country's Arpad dynasty include Stephen I, its first king. During this nation's communist period, it was led by János Kádár (YA-nos KA-dar). This country saw reforms that led to "Goulash Communism." Through the Ausgleich (OWS-glaik) of 1867, this country spent the later half of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as part of a dual monarchy with Austria. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Budapest.

----
num: 16
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 419
answer: Republic of {Hungary} [or {Magyarorszag}; or {Magyar} Koztarsasag]

This country lost much of its territory in the Treaty of Trianon. Members of this country's Arpad dynasty include Stephen I, its first king. During this nation's communist period, it was led by János Kádár (YA-nos KA-dar). This country saw reforms that led to "Goulash Communism." Through the Ausgleich (OWS-glaik) of 1867, this country spent the later half of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as part of a dual monarchy with Austria. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Budapest.

----
num: 17
category: Mythology
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 789
answer: Thor

This god gave the horse Gullfaxi to his son Magni after killing the giant Hrungnir with the help of his servant Thialfi. This god disguised himself as Freya to reclaim his weapon from Thrym, and will kill the Midgard Serpent at Ragnarok, only to die from its poison. He kills his enemies with lightning bolts from his hammer, Mjollnir. For 10 points, name this Norse god of thunder.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 441
answer: Ernest Miller {Hemingway}

This man wrote a novel in which Harry Morgan uses his boat to smuggle liquor and illegal immigrants, To Have and Have Not. In one of his novels, Pablo is the husband of Pilar, the leader of a guerilla group that Robert Jordan is working with. That novel takes place during the Spanish Civil War. Another novel by this author is narrated by Jake Barnes, an American expatriate in Paris. He also wrote about the struggles of the fisherman Santiago. For 10 points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.

----
num: 19
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: None
seen: 410
answer: {Vienna}

By the terms of a treaty signed in this city, Stanislaw Leszczynski accepted the rule of Augustus III, who had been the Duke of Saxony; that treaty ended the War of the Polish Succession. Wilhelm von Roggendorf defended this city from an attack that included large numbers of ineffective Sipahi cavalry, while Jan III Sobieski aided in the 1683 defense of this city from an assault ordered by Mehmet IV. Twice besieged by the Ottomans, for 10 points, name this European city, the capital of Austria.

----
num: 19
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: None
seen: 421
answer: {Vienna}

By the terms of a treaty signed in this city, Stanislaw Leszczynski accepted the rule of Augustus III, who had been the Duke of Saxony; that treaty ended the War of the Polish Succession. Wilhelm von Roggendorf defended this city from an attack that included large numbers of ineffective Sipahi cavalry, while Jan III Sobieski aided in the 1683 defense of this city from an assault ordered by Mehmet IV. Twice besieged by the Ottomans, for 10 points, name this European city, the capital of Austria.

----
num: 20
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 418
answer: {Mao} Zedong [or {Mao Tse-tung} ]

One policy instituted by this leader was the Rectification Movement. This leader's wife was a member of a group known as the Gang of Four. One event that marked this ruler's ascent to power was a military action in which this leader's forces relocated away from those of the Kuomintang (KWO-min-tang). That action was known as the Long March. Opposed to the Chinese Nationalist Party led by Chiang Kai-Shek, for 10 points, name this first leader of Communist China whose quotations were collected in the "Little Red Book."

----
num: 20
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 412
answer: Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-tung]

One policy instituted by this leader was the Rectification Movement. This leader's wife was a member of a group known as the Gang of Four. One event that marked this ruler's ascent to power was a military action in which this leader's forces relocated away from those of the Kuomintang (KWO-min-tang). That action was known as the Long March. Opposed to the Chinese Nationalist Party led by Chiang Kai-Shek, for 10 points, name this first leader of Communist China whose quotations were collected in the "Little Red Book."

----
num: 21
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 489
answer: Alan Mathison {Turing}

Along with Alonzo Church, he gives his name to a hypothesis about computable functions. One construct named for him includes a head which can read and write symbols on a strip of tape. This man, who helped to crack the Enigma machine, also gives his name to an experiment in which a machine tries to convince a human that it is itself a human. For 10 points, name this computer scientist with a namesake "machine" and a namesake "test."

----
num: 22
category: Geography
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 718
answer: Vietnam

The Keo Nua Pass in this country is one of the few passes through the Annamese Cordillera (CORE-dee-YARE-uh). This nation's capital includes the Temple of the Trung Sisters and is located on the Red River. The imperial citadel of Dai Noi is found in this country's onetime capital Hue (hway). For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation that was reunified in 1975 after a bloody war between the communist north and U.S.-aligned south.

----
num: 22
category: Geography
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 720
answer: Vietnam

The Keo Nua Pass in this country is one of the few passes through the Annamese Cordillera (CORE-dee-YARE-uh). This nation's capital includes the Temple of the Trung Sisters and is located on the Red River. The imperial citadel of Dai Noi is found in this country's onetime capital Hue (hway). For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation that was reunified in 1975 after a bloody war between the communist north and U.S.-aligned south.

----
num: 23
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 490
answer: deserts

This biome is either BWh or BWk in the Koppen system, and these areas typically feature xeric (ZEER-ick) soil regimes. Temporary lakes in this environment are playas (PLY-uhs), and this area’s high level of evapotranspiration may lead to salt flats. They are often created due to a rain shadow effect from upwind mountains. For 10 points, name this arid biome which typically experiences less than 10 inches of rain a year, examples of which include the Gobi and the Sahara.

----
num: 24
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 487
answer: {uranium} [accept {U} prior to mention]

The extraction process for this element requires grinding it up and leeching with sulfuric acid, converting its dioxide into a trioxide. Afterwards, it is enriched by adding elemental fluorine to form its hexafluoride, which is then converted back into the dioxide for conversion into the pellets for its best known use. Available from the pitchblende, this element converts into thorium and potassium in the Earth's core and contains the radioactive 238 isotope. For 10 points, identify this actinide used in nuclear power plants, symbolized U.

----
num: 25
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 447
answer: A {Modest Proposal} For Preventing The Children of Poor People in Ireland From Being

One part of this essay describes a teenage girl who was crucified for trying to poison the emperor of Formosa, and compares that victim to people who wear “foreign fineries which they never will pay for.” It predicts such advantages as generating "eight sterlings per annum" for the "poorer tenants" and "lessening the number of papists," while suggesting that the product in question can be “seasoned with a little pepper or salt.” For 10 points, identify this pamphlet by Jonathan Swift, which satirically suggests raising Irish children as food.

----
num: 26
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: Kurt {Vonnegut}

One of this man’s works concerns a Burger Chef owner who mistakes a science-fiction book for the literal truth, while foma and granfaloons are elements of Bokononism in a work of his where ice-nine destroys the world. Another work by this author of Breakfast of Champions centers on an optometrist from Ilium, New York who experiences the firebombing of Dresden in World War II and becomes “unstuck in time.” For 10 points, name this author of Cat’s Cradle who told the story of Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five.

----
num: 26
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: Kurt {Vonnegut}

One of this man’s works concerns a Burger Chef owner who mistakes a science-fiction book for the literal truth, while foma and granfaloons are elements of Bokononism in a work of his where ice-nine destroys the world. Another work by this author of Breakfast of Champions centers on an optometrist from Ilium, New York who experiences the firebombing of Dresden in World War II and becomes “unstuck in time.” For 10 points, name this author of Cat’s Cradle who told the story of Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five.

----
num: 27
category: Philosophy
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 522
answer: The {Republic}

One section of this work describes a shepherd named Gyges who commits unethical acts after he discovers a ring that grants him invisibility. This work describes the Sun as being the child of the Form of the Good in detailing an ideal society ruled by philosopher kings. One part of this work describes a group of men who watch the shadows a fire casts on a wall and mistakes them for reality. That section is known as the Allegory of the Cave. For 10 points, name this philosophical by Plato that describes the city state.

----
num: 28
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 418
answer: {Charlemagne} [or {Charles I;} or {Charles the Great} ; or {Charles le Grand} ; or {Karl der Grosse}

This ruler set up a system of authority and law in his namesake Capitulary. A biography of this ruler was written by Einhard. This ruler originally split lands with his brother Carloman after the death of his father, Pepin the Short. This man was unexpectedly crowned while kneeling to pray in St. Peter's Basilica on Christmas by Pope Leo III, becoming by that action "Emperor of the Romans" in the year 800. For 10 points, name this grandson of Charles Martel and Carolingian ruler who greatly expanded the Frankish empire.

----
num: 28
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 427
answer: {Charlemagne} [or Charles I; or Charles the {Great}; or Charles le {Grand}; or {Karl der Grosse}

This ruler set up a system of authority and law in his namesake Capitulary. A biography of this ruler was written by Einhard. This ruler originally split lands with his brother Carloman after the death of his father, Pepin the Short. This man was unexpectedly crowned while kneeling to pray in St. Peter's Basilica on Christmas by Pope Leo III, becoming by that action "Emperor of the Romans" in the year 800. For 10 points, name this grandson of Charles Martel and Carolingian ruler who greatly expanded the Frankish empire.

----
num: 29
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 442
answer: {Sophocles}

One play by this author opens as a character sits upon a stone and is ordered by villagers to leave, as he trespasses on lands sacred to the Furies. In another play, the chorus proclaims that punishment brings wisdom after the suicides of Eurydice (you-RID-uh-see) and Haemon (HIGH-mahn). That play is about Ismene’s (is-MEH-nay) sister, who buries one of her brothers. This author wrote about the self-induced blindness of the title character in another play, who defeats the Sphinx, kills his father, and marries his mother. For 10 points, identify this playwright of Antigone and Oedipus Rex.

----
num: 30
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 489
answer: {Bernoulli's} Principle [or {Bernoulli's} Equation; or {Bernoulli's} Theorem; or {Bernoulli's} Law]

This principle explains why the use of greater camber allows for the operation of certain objects. This theorem explains the changes that happen to certain molecules inside a Venturi tube. If there is no vertical change in height, the equation for this law simplifies to one half the density times velocity squared plus the pressure. This principle states that an increase in fluid velocity results in a decrease in fluid pressure. For 10 points, name this principle devised by a Swiss mathematician that helps explain the ability of airplanes to achieve lift.

----
num: 35
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 441
answer: {Henry James}

In one of this author's works, the title object allows for the affair of Charlotte and Prince Amerigo to be discovered by Maggie Verver. That novel is The Golden Bowl. Catherine Sloper is the main character of his Washington Square, and Gilbert Osmond marries Isabel Archer in another novel by this author. He also wrote a "ghost story" narrated by the Miles and Flora's governess. For 20 points, name this author of The Portrait of a Lady and The Turn of the Screw.

----
num: 36
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 437
answer: Jerome David {Salinger}

One of this author’s stories is described as “unpleasantly controversial and thoroughly unsuccessful” by his character Buddy. That story follows a ten-year-old Buddhist who predicts his own death aboard a ship. Along with “Teddy,” this author collected “For Esme - With Love and Squalor” and the story of Seymour Glass’s suicide, “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” in his Nine Stories. For 20 points, name this recluse, who also wrote about phony-hating Pencey Prep expellee Holden Caulfield.

----
num: 37
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 446
answer: The {Grapes} of Wrath

One character in this novel beats Herb to death with a shovel. That character, Connie Rivers, later marries a character who delivers a stillborn baby, Rose of Sharon. Grampa and Granma both die during a journey which takes place in this novel, in which a family whose members include Tom, Ma, and Pa tries to escape the Dust Bowl. For 20 points, name this novel about the Joads' journey from Oklahoma to California.

----
num: 38
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 447
answer: Lord of the Flies

During one incident in this novel, a sand castle is destroyed by Maurice and Roger. Later, after the flashes of a dogfight in the atmosphere, a dead parachutist lands near Sam and Eric. A pig’s head impaled on a stick appears to Simon as the title figure of this novel. Its characters learn how to start a fire with a pair of glasses and use a conch shell to call meetings. For 20 points, name this book in which order breaks down and Ralph loses control to Jack.

----
num: 39
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 445
answer: {Nineteen Eighty-Four} (accept {1984} )

One interpretation of this novel casts it as an allegory for the same boarding-school system that the author attacked directly in the essay “Such, Such Were the Joys.” Its characters include Syme, who is employed in writing the eleventh edition of a dictionary that includes words such as “doubleplusungood” and “crimethink.” O’Brien is revealed as the leader of the “Brotherhood,” an organization said to oppose Oceania’s government, headed by Big Brother. For 20 points, name this novel about an oppressive regime.

----
num: 40
category: Literature
difficulty: HS
fixed: -1
seen: 447
answer: Emile {Zola}

This author wrote about a violence-obsessed train driver named Jacques Lantier in the novel The Human Beast. That novel is part of a twenty-novel cycle detailing the life of the Rougon-Macquart family, which also includes the novels Nana and Germinal. He also wrote an open letter accusing the French government of anti-Semitism for imprisoning Alfred Dreyfus. For 20 points, name this French naturalist author of "J'accuse."

----
num: 41
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 419
answer: California {Gold Rush}

This event disrupted a certain farmer's plans to expand "New Helvetia." Ethnic tensions that resulted from this event culminated in an "exclusion act" against workers from China. This event made the denim overall-selling Levi Strauss open shop. Techniques pioneered during this event include "coyoteing" and "dredging," modifications of "panning." Participants in this event were known as 49ers. For 20 points, name this historical event that was begun by a discovery at Sutter's Mill.

----
num: 41
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 57
seen: 417
answer: California {Gold Rush}

This event disrupted a certain farmer's plans to expand "New Helvetia." Ethnic tensions that resulted from this event culminated in an "exclusion act" against workers from China. This event made the denim overall-selling Levi Strauss open shop. Techniques pioneered during this event include "coyoteing" and "dredging," modifications of "panning." Participants in this event were known as 49ers. For 20 points, name this historical event that was begun by a discovery at Sutter's Mill.

----
num: 42
category: Social Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 500
answer: {kosher} laws or {kashrut}

Four species of locusts have this quality, but the sciatic nerve does not. Items which do not conform to this are considered "treyf", and include any mammal which does not have a cloven hoof and chew the cud. These items are classified as meat, dairy, and neutral (or parve) due to the necessity of not consuming meat and dairy at the same meal, and chametz, or leavened bread, is not considered this for Passover. For 20 points, name this term which refers to foods which are permitted under Jewish dietary law.

----
num: 43
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 416
answer: Henry {Clay}

This man lost bids for the presidency when running with John Sergeant and Theodore Frelinghuysen. He developed an economic program consisting of high tariffs and infrastructure projects like road development in his American System. He finished fourth in the election of 1824, and then engineered a "corrupt bargain" as Speaker of the House to help John Quincy Adams win. For 20 points, name this Kentucky congressman and senator whose work with the Missouri Compromise and Compromise 1850 gave him his nickname as the "Great Compromiser."

----
num: 43
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 416
answer: Henry {Clay}

This man lost bids for the presidency when running with John Sergeant and Theodore Frelinghuysen. He developed an economic program consisting of high tariffs and infrastructure projects like road development in his American System. He finished fourth in the election of 1824, and then engineered a "corrupt bargain" as Speaker of the House to help John Quincy Adams win. For 20 points, name this Kentucky congressman and senator whose work with the Missouri Compromise and Compromise 1850 gave him his nickname as the "Great Compromiser."

----
num: 44
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 417
answer: Jawaharlal {Nehru}

This man permitted a group of unarmed protesters to enter Goa in 1955, thirty of which were killed, and later invaded that colony. This man stated, "We shall never allow that torch of freedom to be blown out, however high the wind or stormy the tempest," in his "Tryst With Destiny" speech. This man presided over the Lahore session of the Indian National Congress in 1929 that advocated independence. For 20 points, name this man who served as the first prime minister of post-independence India.

----
num: 44
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 420
answer: Jawaharlal {Nehru}

This man permitted a group of unarmed protesters to enter Goa in 1955, thirty of which were killed, and later invaded that colony. This man stated, "We shall never allow that torch of freedom to be blown out, however high the wind or stormy the tempest," in his "Tryst With Destiny" speech. This man presided over the Lahore session of the Indian National Congress in 1929 that advocated independence. For 20 points, name this man who served as the first prime minister of post-independence India.

----
num: 45
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 416
answer: {New Deal}

The original planks in this program were passed in the "Hundred Days," leading to a "Second" one two years later. That one included a legal mandate for collective bargaining in the Wagner Act, as well as the appointment of Harry Hopkins to head the Works Progress Administration. Its original bank reforms created the FDIC and SEC, as well as work-generating projects such as the Tennessee Valley Authority. For 20 points, identify this program, which began in 1933.

----
num: 46
category: History
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 422
answer: Commonwealth of {Australia}

Some people have used the Dieppe maps to argue that this country was originally discovered by the Portuguese. The Eureka Flag was the symbol of a rebellion which took place in 1854 during a gold rush in this country. Prime Ministers of this country include Robert Menzies, John Howard, and the current leader, Julia Gillard. An island belonging to this country was colonized in 1803 and named Van Diemen's Land. For 20 points, name this nation, home to Botany Bay.

----
num: 47
category: Fine Arts
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 491
answer: Wolfgang Amadeus {Mozart}

For the opening of the Concert Spirituel, this composer wrote his “Paris” Symphony. Another of his symphonies features a five-voice fugato in its last movement and received its name from Johann Peter Salomon. Kochel (KUR-chell) numbers categorize this composer’s works, which include his forty-first symphony, which is nicknamed “Jupiter.” For 10 points, name this Austrian classical composer of Eine Kleine Nachtmusik and The Magic Flute.

----
num: 48
category: Science
difficulty: HS
fixed: 1
seen: 480
answer: {influenzavirus} [prompt on {flu} ]

The human disease causing virus is found in genus Orthomyxoviridae. Like some forms of smallpox, virulent forms of this virus can trigger a cytokine storm. This virus is combated by amantadine and oseltamivir. Variants in this virus's Hemagglutinin and Neuraminidase components leads the the HN classification of it. An example of such a classification would be H1N1 which can be of avian or swine origin. For 10 points, name this virus that causes the flu.