####
tournament: Chicago Open Literature
round: Rd02.doc
year: 2009
####

num: 2
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 33
answer: The {Book} of {Daniel}

The protagonist of this novel believes that the weather is controlled by black magic which always targets him, and the protagonist's grandmother comes to him as a ghost to whisper of her fears regarding the doomed fates of her daughter and granddaughter. The protagonist relates how while sodomizing his wife he was interrupted by a phone call informing him of his sister's suicide attempt with in a roadside Howard Johnson's. Traveling to visit that sister, Susan, the protagonist of this work hitchhikes from New York to Massachusetts along with his infant son in a sling carrier and his wife Phyllis, and he recounts how both of the Isaacsons are executed in the electric chair for treason. Reworking the figures of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg as the parents of the title character, for 10 points, name this biblically titled novel by E. L. Doctorow.

----
num: 3
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 33
answer: The {Tenant} of {Wildfell} Hall

One character in this novel is described as being “loved and courted by all the dogs and cats” but rejected by all the humans; that woman, Mary, is the sister of Eliza and daughter of the well-meaning vicar, whom the main character all but ignores, Michael Millward. The protagonist is initially courted by the boring Mr. Boarham, and her course of life causes Mr. Hattersley to treat his wife, Millicent Hargrave, better. One character in this work dies when he drinks a bottle of wine after falling from a horse; he had earlier had an affair with Annabella Lowborough and lives at Grassdale Manor. The protagonist is believed to be having an affair with Frederick Lawrence, who is actually her brother. The main character's lies are exposed when a journal explaining her earlier life is found by a farmer named Gilbert Markham, whom she later marries. Ending with the main character's return to Staningly Hall after the death of her first husband, Arthur Huntingdon, for 10 points, name this novel about the so-called Helen Graham, who takes up lodging at the title location, a novel by Anne Brontë.

----
num: 4
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 33
answer: After the {Quake} [or {Kami no kodomo tachi wa mina odoru}]

One incident in this book ends with a character kneeling on a pitcher's mound and proclaiming “Oh God,” after following a man on a train whom he believes to be both God and his missing father because the man is missing one earlobe. In another part of this book, a child who believes that she is about to be put into a small box by a malevolent figure is calmed down by hearing a story about two bears in a bullying relationship, who become friends after a trade involving salmon. One character in this book speculates that the protagonist of Jack London's “To Build a Fire” wanted to die and talks about the meaning of bonfires with Miyake. The limousine driver Nimit takes one character in this book to a fortune teller, who instructs Satsuki to dream of a snake in order to get a stone out of her body. A predicted underground battle with a hate-absorbing worm in this book never comes to pass, and Katagiri is covered with insects after confronting the amphibian which foretold such a fight. The first character described in this book is given a free one-week vacation in exchange for a delivering a package to the sister of one of his coworkers at the electronics store, after his wife leaves him a note accusing him of being a “chunk of air” as the reason for leaving him, but traumatic memories of the (*) title phenomenon causes that character to become impotent with Shimao. Including “Landscape with Flatiron,” “All God's Children Can Dance,” “Thailand,” “Honey Pie,” “UFO in Kushiro,” and “Super-Frog Saves Tokyo,” this book takes place in the weeks after a January 1995 event in Kobe. For 10 points, name this short story cycle by Haruki Murakami about a natural disaster.

----
num: 5
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 35
answer: Marianne {Moore}

In one poem, this author wrote that the title figure was "too rapid for the eye to cage", characterized by "contagious gems of virtuosity" and "jewels of mobility", while another of this author's poems conjures a taxi driver who claims "They/ Make some fine young men at Harvard." Besides "Arthur Mitchell" and "In the Public Garden", one poem condemns the Egyptians for raising "dog-cats" and remarks on the title beings, who live in "“a shining silver house/ of sand." Light "split like spun glass" illuminates "the turquoise sea of bodies" and the title figure swims "through black jade" in another poem. She also wrote of a place where (*) "Dürer would have seen a reason for living" in a poem whose title character is C.J Poole, "The Steeple-Jack", and besides animal themed works like "The Jerboa" and "The Fish", one of her works demands for inspection ""imaginary gardens with real toads in them" from "literalists of the imagination." That work claims "there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle" and begins "I, too, dislike it." For 10 points, name this author of "Poetry."

----
num: 6
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 38
answer: Heinrich Theodor {Boll}

One of his stories describes a well-educated man who opts to work as a person who announces the title phrase in the railway. A prominent work of satire written by him is narrated through the perspective of Aunt Milla's nephew and describes the decay of Uncle Franz. In addition to "This is Tibten" and "Christmas Not Just Once a Year," one of his title characters spends a night with a girl in a haystack in his story "Kumpel."The protagonist of one of his stories recognizes the title inscription on a blackboard after confirming that he has been brought to his school, but silently whispers "Milk" after he discovers that his limbs have been amputated. In addition to "Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We…," his stories "That Time We Were in Odessa" and "Children Are Civilians Too" describe the experiences of soldiers in World War II, exemplifying his style of (*)"Rubble literature." He also wrote a novel about a woman who becomes a target of media sensationalism, causing her to kill Werner Totges. For 10 points, identify this author who wrote The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum.

----
num: 7
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: {Kristin Lavransdatter} [accept either name]

This character exchanges her first vows of love at St. Margaret's Festival, and one of this character's friends is killed by Bentein after Bentein sexually harasses this character. This character's brother-in-law is killed after having his arm slashed mediating a bar fight, and she dies along with two of her seven sons after entering a convent. This character's husband is forced to forfeit all of his lands for his part in a conspiracy to overthrow the child king (*) Magnus VII, and she first meets the witch-wife Lady Aashild when she is called upon to help raise her crippled sister Ulvhild. After rejecting her betrothed Simon Andresson, this character, who ultimately contracts the Black Death, marries her true love Erlend Nikulausson, whom she moves with to Husaby. Appearing in The Bridal Wreath, The Wife, and The Cross, for 10 points, name this title character of a trilogy by Sigrid Undset.

----
num: 8
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: The {Rise} of {Silas Lapham}

In this novel, one character invokes his Uncle James to defend his business judgment after offering another an investment of thirty thousand dollars, and another character angrily tells the protagonist of a proposed marriage between Mr. Wemmel and his typist Z'rilla. The protagonist sends free wares to a reporter who writes a favorable article about him, and refuses to (*) sell property to a group of businessmen from England out of his private knowledge that its value is overestimated. The protagonist's eldest daughter Penelope eventually marries his employee Tom Corey, and he has a falling out with his former partner Milton Rogers after being forced to sell out by the railroad companies and going bankrupt. For 10 points, name this novel following the decline of the titular paint magnate, a work of William Dean Howells.

----
num: 9
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 1
seen: 34
answer: “The {Gold Bug}”

The epigraph of this story is wrongly attributed to Arthur Murphy's All in the Wrong, though it's very similar to Floreville's lines from Frederick Reynolds' The Dramatist. That epigraph talks about a madman who has been bitten by a tarantula. The narrator of this work is confused as to why Jupe arrives at his place with brand new scythes and later on, it is revealed that Jupe is unable to differentiate between his right and left eyes after he is instructed to drop the title object through the eye of a (*) skull. Fortuitously, the narrator of this work extends his arms towards a fire as he caresses Wolf, which allows for a Death's Head to be revealed on a piece of parchment. The narrator's friend then decodes a cipher which leads him to Bessop's Castle, after which he discovers a huge tulip tree under which a treasure is buried. For 10 points, identify this short story wherein William Legrand discovers the lost treasure of Captain Kidd using a shiny metallic insect, written by Edgar Allen Poe.

----
num: 10
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 37
answer: A {Room} of {One's Own}

This work's speaker hums Tennyson's “Song From Maud” and Rosetti's “A Birthday” between the lavish lunch and plain dinner that set up its central contrast. In its final section, that speaker rejoices over the phrase “Chloe liked Olivia,” found in the invented novel Life's Adventure by Mary Carmichael, as an example of the kind of work she would like to see. Beginning by describing a failure to get into the British Museum, this essay also claims that (*) Charlotte Bronte too easily let her personal circumstances penetrate her writing, and that George Eliot committed verbal atrocities by using a masculine sentence--as opposed to Jane Austen's creation of a feminine one--to show how circumstances alter writing. For 10 points, name this essay prepared as a lecture for Girton and Newnham Colleges, which notes the necessity of both five hundred a year and the title space for women to write, by Virginia Woolf.

----
num: 11
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 36
answer: Gaius Valerius {Catullus}

This author said that one lover had “honeyed eyes” in one work, and in another, he steals a kiss “sweeter than sweet ambrosia” from that lover. In one poem, this author asks his friend to bring him entertainment and a meal in exchange for a perfume that would make him wish he were all nose. Another poem asks his detractors, “do you think I am not a real man?” in reference to an earlier poem, where he asked a lover to kiss him a thousand and a hundred times repeatedly until losing count. That later poem is addressed to two men whom this poet says he will sodomize and mouth-fuck, Aurelius and Furius. Another work begins “Wandering through many countries and over many seas / I come” before describing his brother's funeral, ending with the words “hail and farewell.” The lover of Juventius and odd meters like hendecasyllabics, for 10 points, name this Roman poet who wrote Ave Atque Vale and some poems to Lesbia.

----
num: 12
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 32
answer: '{Tis Pity She's} a {Whore}

One character in this play claims that "he's seen an ass and a mule trot the Spanish pavin with better grace" after watching his dim-witted master dance, while another character declares that "a life of pleasure is Elysium," just before he receives a letter written in blood. The husband of one character pretends to be a doctor after faking his death to spy on his wife; that character is Richardetto, whose wife Hippolita herself was mistress to the title character's husband. The title character rejects (*) Donado's simple-minded nephew Bergetto. Vasques learns of the title character's secret from her tutor, Putana, while earlier, the title character confesses about her condition to Friar Bonaventura. The title character's husband is also violently murdered after her heart is displayed on a dagger by her brother. For 10 points, identify this play wherein Annabella has an incestuous relationship with Giovanni, written by John Ford.

----
num: 13
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 38
answer: {Lemminkäinen} [or {Kaukomieli}; or {Ahti}]

This man becomes angry while brushing his beard and throws the brush across the room, proclaiming that the bristles will bleed when he is harmed. This character spends several years living on an island of women, arriving there in the shape of an eagle and later leaving with Tiera on a mission of revenge. An attempt to use ale adulterated with snake venom to kill this man fails. His tasks include capturing an elk and putting a bridle on a gelding, but when he fails in his (*) third task, he must be treated with seven vessels of honey from the Turi cups, brought by a magic bee. He abandons his first wife Kyllikki after she goes to a dance without him, and he is later reassembled by his mother from the pieces at the bottom of a river after being killed by the shepherd Soppy Hat during an attempt to capture the swan of Tuonela. For 10 points, name this character who thus fails in his attempt to marry a daughter of Louhi in the Kalevala.

----
num: 14
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 1
seen: 36
answer: El Gaucho {Martín Fierro} [do not accept La {Vuelta} de {Martín Fierro}]

At the beginning of this work, the protagonist is compared to a solitary bird, and another character sings a song about how all women are like mules. In one section, a white person with a dancing monkey gets rounded up with the main character. One character in this book had a tutor who robbed him of the inheritance his aunt left him, and another was wrongly accused of murder, and insisted others not to follow the law; those two are the sons of the protagonist. One character dies by nursing the chief of an Indian tribe ravaged with smallpox. The main character did not (*) vote for the Justice of the Peace, and eventually ends up with the father of Picardia, whom he later meets in the same place as a black man, whose brother he had killed. This happens years after he escaped from conscription with Cruz, and this work ends with the title character laying down his guitar on the Pampas. For 10 points, name this gaucho epic poem by José Hernández.

----
num: 15
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 35
answer: {Henry Adams}

This is the name of the protagonist of a novel who works at the Home Management Company, is married to a woman named Beatrice, and waits to become a baseball star. In addition to being the name of the protagonist of Barry Beckham's novel Runner Mack, this name is held by the author of a book which pleads for “ten minutes to accustom our eyes to the light" and discusses the theological work of Abelard in relation to its production of multiplicity. In a more famous work by that author with this name, Jay Gould attempts to obtain a corner on the gold market and (*) Charles Sumner attempts to provoke war with Canada, while the protagonist of that novel teaches medieval history at Harvard and Cambridge. For ten points, identify this name which labels a man who discussed dynamos in a book about his own Education, a notable American historian.

----
num: 16
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: {John Anthony Burgess Wilson} [accept either]

Denis Hillier and Edwin Roper are foils in this man's Soviet spy novel Tremor of Intent, and the pompous title character Francis Xavier writes poems while taking dumps in a series of novel by this writer, the first of which was published under the pseudonym Joseph Knell. His first three published works were collected into a trilogy sometimes called The Long Day Wanes, but is better known for a work that begins “It was the afternoon of my 81st birthday” and centers on a writer named Kenneth Toomey. He also wrote novels based on William Shakespeare and Christopher Marlowe titled (*) Nothing Like the Sun and A Dead Man in Deptford, respectively. His magnum opus follows a group of boys who frequent the Korova Milkbar and who are lead by a fifteen-year old who loves Beethoven. For 10 points, name this English author of the Inside Mr. Enderby, Malayan Trilogy, Earthly Powers, and a dystopian novel in which the Ludovico Technique alters Alex, titled A Clockwork Orange.

----
num: 17
category: Social Science
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: On the {Origin} of {Species} by {Means} of Natural Selection, or the {Preservation} of {Favoured Races} in the {Struggle} for {Life}

In the introduction to the latest edition of this work, the author tracks its influence through speeches by people like Isidore Geoffrey Saint-Hilaire and Jean-Louis Naudin. Janet Browne wrote a “biography” of this work, which is preceded by three epigraphs, from the Bridgewater Treatise, the Analogy of Revealed Religion, and the Advancement of Learning, by William Whewell, Joseph Butler, and Francis Bacon. This work, the subject of a work about Peter and Rosemary Grant by Jonathan Weiner, discusses the instincts of slave-making ants and cell-making honeybees in one chapter, while another discusses the (*) domestication and breeding of pigeons. This work disputed the conclusions of William Paley's Natural Theology, and improved upon Zoological Philosophy by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Forced into publication by a similar work of Alfred Russell Wallace, for 10 points, name this book that put forth natural selection and other tenets of evolution, written by Charles Darwin.

----
num: 18
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 34
answer: {Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson}

One play by this author begins with Harald discussing his discontent with the local newspaper with the wealthy distiller whose daughter Gertrud he is engaged to. In another play by this author, the lawyer Berent repeatedly harasses the protagonist with the reality of his financial overextension during a series of legal proceedings. This author of the novels Trust and Trial and A Happy Boy also wrote the plays When the New Wine Blooms, The Editor, Sigurd the Bad, and the aforementioned play about the title character Tjaelde, The Bankrupt. This author's novels include one in which the protagonist's father Nils has his back broken in a barn fight with Baard Boen and one in which Hans Odegaard is the only true love of the protagonist Petra. For 10 points, name this author of Arne, The Fisher Maiden, and Beyond Our Power, a native of Norway.

----
num: 19
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 36
answer: Ebenezer {Scrooge}

When this character complains that the Sunday Observance bills prevent the poor from eating once a week, he hears in response that its sponsors “are as strange to us and all our kith and kin, as if they had never lived.” The only person who feels emotion at his death is Caroline, who sees it as an opportunity to delay paying debts; meanwhile, the laundress Mrs. Dilber agrees with the fence Joe Hoggs that if he didn't want to have his things looted after death, he should've been “natural” while alive. Though Dick Wilkins is his friend in youth, the eventual husband of his one-time fiancée Belle notes that he becomes alone in the world after his partner's death. He is described as a savage and unpleasant animal in a guessing game by his nephew (*) Fred, though he is later toasted for providing holiday merriment. At another dinner, his employee's toast to him casts a shadow over children Peter, Martha, Belinda, and Tim, though he finally becomes like a “second father” to the latter after raising that employee's salary when he comes in late on the 26th. For 10 points, name this colleague of Old Fezziwig and Jacob Marley from “A Christmas Carol.”

----
num: 20
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: 57
seen: 37
answer: {Gargantua}

The narrator argues that, despite what The Blason of Colors says, this man's colors white and blue represent joy and heaven, rather than faith and firmness. He named the town of Beauce after a battle fought between a swarm of hornets and his mare, and once inadvertently killed six pilgrims caught in his garden when he wanted lettuce. Originally appearing in an anonymous chapbook as the servant of King Arthur, his first words upon birth were (*) “Come, drink, drink, drink,” though his son's more eventful birth involved 68 muleteers and 16 camels. He infuriated Janotus de Bragmardo by stealing the bells of Notre Dame, defeated the army of Picrochole, and then, with his ally the Monk, founded the do-what-thou-will Abbey of Thélème, having earlier given Paris its name by drowning it in his urine. For 10 points, name this son of Grandgousier and Gargamelle, the father of Pantagruel written about by Francois Rabelais.

----
num: 21
category: Literature
difficulty: Open
fixed: None
seen: 36
answer: “A {Retrieved Reformation}”

In the beginning of this work, the protagonist receives a train ticket, five dollars, and a cigar and returns to a café. There, Mike Dolan apologizes to him and he goes upstairs and grabs a dusty suitcase hidden in the wall. The protagonist only sees Ben Price face-to-face in the last scene, when Ben tells him, “I don't believe I recognize you, Mr. Spencer.” The protagonist settles in a small town in Arkansas, where he starts a (*) shoe business and attracts Miss Annabel Adams under the guise of a fake name. On the verge of throwing away his criminal past, he must revert back to his old ways when a young girl gets stuck in a bank vault. For 10 points, a safe-cracker named Jimmy Valentine gets out of prison, finds love, and saves the day in what short story by O. Henry?