####
tournament: Web Sample
round: m_round01.pdf
####

num: 1
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Nucleus

What organelle functions to isolate a human cell’s chromosomes from the cytoplasm?

----
num: 1
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Hemoglobin

What is the primary oxygen -carrying protein found in red blood cells?

----
num: 2
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Liquid

What physical state of matter is intermediate between a solid and gas?

----
num: 3
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Tides

What is the general name for the rising and falling of sea levels in response to the forces exerted by the Moon and Sun?

----
num: 4
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 30

How many degrees are in one-third of a right angle?

----
num: 4
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 540,000

Round the number 535,279 to the nearest ten -thousand:

----
num: 5
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 6,000  (Accept:  6 × 10 ^3)

Giving your answer in grams, subtract 200 grams from 6.2 kilograms:

----
num: 6
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: 32

How many permanent teeth does a typical adult human have?

----
num: 6
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: 4

How many canine teeth does the typical human adult have?

----
num: 7
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 50

Jeff walks west in a straight path for 100 meters and then east in a straight pa th for 150 meters. What is the magnitude of his displacement, in meters?

----
num: 8
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: Basalt

What is the name of the rock that makes up most of the ocean floor and volcanic ocean islands?

----
num: 9
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Hypotenuse

In a right triangle, what is the name for the side opposite the 9 0º angle?

----
num: 9
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 13
(Solution:  5^2 + 12^2 = C^2;  C = 13)

Rounded to the nearest meter, find the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle if the legs measure 5 and 12 meters?

----
num: 10
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Meter

What is the SI base unit for length?

----
num: 10
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Mach;  Knots

Name all of the following 3 choices that are measurements units for speed: mach; newton; knots

----
num: 11
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Species

In the taxonomical name Homo sapiens, what taxonomical rank does sapiens represent?

----
num: 12
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Electron

What atomic particle balances the charge of protons to produce a neutral atom?

----
num: 12
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Neutrons

Isotopes of the same element are based on their different numbers of what atomic particle?

----
num: 13
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Jupiter

Which of the Gas giant planets is closest to the Sun?

----
num: 13
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 8
answer: Heat and Pressure  (In Any Order)

What are the 2 main factors causing the metamorphism ofrocks?

----
num: 14
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Radius  (Accept:  Radii)

What is the name for any segment with one endpoint at the center of a circle and the other endpoint on the circle?

----
num: 14
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 0.3333  (Accept:  .3333)

Rounded to the nearest ten -thousandth, convert 31^rd to a decimal:

----
num: 15
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 64

If there are 640 ounces of water in 5 gallons, how many ounces are in ½ gallon?

----
num: 15
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: H Ectare;  Acre

Name all of the following 4 choices that are measurementunits of area: meter; hectare; acre; mile

----
num: 16
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: The Cell

What is generally considered the basic unit of life?

----
num: 16
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Chloroplast  (Accept:  Plastid)

In what organelle of a plant cell does photosynthesis occur?

----
num: 17
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 1

An ionic state of an atom of hydrogen would have how many protons?

----
num: 17
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Fermentation

What is the name for the biochemical process that converts grape juice into wine or soy beans into soy sauce?

----
num: 18
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: South

Giving your answer as north, south, east, or west, a southerly wind blows FROM what direction?

----
num: 19
category: Math
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 8
answer: 6π

What is the exact circumference, in centimeters, of a circle w hose radius is 3 centimeters?

----
num: 19
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 10
30 ;  
3018
;  
3025

Change each of the following 3 fractions, respectively, to equivalentfractions with a denominator of 30: 31; 53; 65

----
num: 20
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
fixed: -1
seen: 6
answer: Hy Drogen Peroxide

What is the common name for the antiseptic, found in many homes, that decomposes into water and oxygen?

----
num: 20
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: H
^2o
^2

What is the chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide?

----
num: 21
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 11
answer: Albumen

What is the scientific name for the white of a cooked egg?

----
num: 21
category: Life Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 10
answer: Enzymes

What term is generally used for biological catalysts?

----
num: 22
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: Weigh T

What term do scientists use for the force of gravity acting on anything that has mass?

----
num: 22
category: Physical Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 5
answer: 2

How many protons are present in a single helium nucleus?

----
num: 23
category: Earth Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 8
answer: Longitudes  (Accept:  Meridians)

What is the name for all Great Circles that pass through the north and south poles?

----
num: 24
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 7
answer: 3

Every triangle has how many vertices?

----
num: 24
category: Math
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 17

If the perimeter of a triangle is 45 centimeters and the lengths of two of its sides are 16 and 12 centimeters, find the length of the third side, in centimeters:

----
num: 25
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: Latitude

What general term describes the angle or degree north or south of the equator?

----
num: 25
category: General Science
difficulty: MS
seen: 6
answer: 90  (Accept:  90º North)

The geographic north pole is at what lati tude?